The Imac is horrible. Sure it looks nice but we are talking about a computer not an office ornament. For those who are looking to buy a computer that is technologically advance and will last at least a couple of years before it becomes worthless LOOK ELSEWHERE and don't waste your hard earned money on this piece of junk. I could write a huge book on why the iMac is a bad computer, but to be brief here are a some of the big problems with the Imac:  
 
1) Over Heating  
 
The IMac has no fan on the processor which means on really hot days your computer could possibly over heat and shut down. Worse comes to worse your processor can get fried making your computer worthless. Also because the iMac compacts everything in that little case there is overheating with all the other hardware parts which could cost you in performance. Also since there is no fan on the processor the processor is running at a slower speed then it technically could which means that there is wasted hardware potential. In a nutshell the Imac heats up a lot faster then normal computers which is bad for your computer. Besides why would you want your computer to be releasing massive amounts of heat on a hot summer day  
 
2) Hardware sucks  
 
Try using the DVD drive it is so flimsy. It is bound to brake. It doesn't even come out all the way when you press the button. There is no floppy disk. The speakers suck. The mouse and keyboard are horrible see my section on Ergonomics. Can't upgrade to anything see can't upgrade.  
 
3) Lack of Software  
 
As with all Apple computers very few developers make software for Macs. Even when they do the software comes out months or years after it has come out for PCs. Go in to a computer store and look at the software sections for both PCs and Macs. You will soon see the difference. Mac holds such a small part of the computer market that there is little profit and incentive for companies to make software for Macs. If you want lots of software (especially games), then buy a PC.  
 
4) Can't Upgrade  
 
It is next to impossible to upgrade an imac. Open up the case and look. You be lucky if you can locate anything. Just about every Pc can be upgraded. Plus even if you could there is almost nothing to upgrade to. While Pcs have tons of hardware upgrades (video cards, sound cars...) availble, macs have next to none. You are suck with it.  
 
5) Ergonomics  
 
Before you buy try out the new Imac. You will find that the mouse and keyboard are Ergonomicly painful. The mouse and keyboard are too small to fit your hands and will make your hand hurt after a couple of minutes. Never have I used a more uncomfortable mouse or keyboard.  
 
6) Price/Performance  
 
Sure you have all heard that macs are twice as fast a Pcs at least. Too bad the test was done by Byte Mag. a product of apple. Sure in some intences they are a bit faster but most times they lag far back in performance. I have comparing the parts of an iMac with a Compaq Pc in the same price range to prove that the iMac is not worth it. The Pc  
A) Costs:  
Pc - $1299 (complete system w/ printer)  
Imac - $1299  
 
B) Processor:  
Pc - Pentium III 600  
iMac - G3 400 MHz  
 
C) Memory:  
Pc - 128 mg  
Imac - 64 mg  
 
D) Hard drive:  
Pc - 17 GB  
Imac - 10 GB  
 
E) Monitor:  
Pc - 17  
Mac - 15 in  
 
F) Results when software was run on both:  
 
Starcraft (game) :  
Pc - 5 sec to load  
Mac - 7 sec to load  
 
Microsoft word:  
Pc- 2 sec to load  
Mac - 2 sec to load  
 
Netscape:  
Pc - 3 sec  
Mac - 6 sec  
 
Photoshop (graphics program)  
Pc- 6 sec  
Mac- 5 sec  
 
As you can see, the iMac is not worth it the high price or the trouble. I urge you to get a pc. However if you are a Mac lover get a new G4 instead of the Imac.  
