Let me start off this review by first stating that the iMacDV I own is the 1999 model. When I bought the computer, I was awestruck taking it out of the box. It was sooo cute! It was also incredibly easy to set up, I was on my way after plugging in only a couple of cords. However, after having the mac for a short while I began to notice its downfalls.  
1) Can you say no space?  
I was a film major in college, and I loved the idea of being able to edit my school projects on my computer. Until I realized only about 10 minutes of footage would fit on my hard drive before the computer would freeze. I had no idea of the compatibility issues that existed when I bought my computer. Final Cut Pro wont even run on it for lack of space.  
2) My modem "went bad"  
I have now owned my mac for two years, and one day when trying to sign on to AOL, it decided I no longer had a modem. I tried reloading AOL, checking the system extensions, and just about everything else that I could possibly think of before I called the local Mac repair shop. Two days letter I got the following message on my answering machine: "Turns out your modem has gone bad. If you want us to replace the faulty modem, the modem cost is $120 and the price for labor is $75" OUTRAGEOUS! I have decided to not get my computer fixed, and to save up until I have the ability to buy a G4. UPDATE Turns out it was not my modem that was the problem, I have a faulty logic board. This is quite a bit worse of a problem, as there is no way to fix it, without paying more than my computer is worth. ARGH. I will never sign on to the internet again with my iMac. It kind of makes me wonder why the "i" in iMac stands for "internet"  
3)fast processor?  
A pox on whomever believes the hype about how much faster Mac processers are than PCs. I can't speak for other Macs, but my PC was much faster than my Mac, and it had a couple more years on it.  
4)DV Drive Problems  
I don't know how many of you have taken a gander at the Mac home page, but at the bottom in very small print is the notice for a civil suit against Mac, requiring them to give upgrades to all of their G3s and iMacs built prior to 2000. If I hadn't thought of buying a much higher model, and scrolled down on their home page, I never would have known, nor would I ever have been able to get the upgrade, as the time limit for upgrading expires on Nov 12th, 2001. (10 days after I saw the notice)  
5)User friendly?  
I don't know if its because I've played with PCs all my life, but the iMac was anything but user friendly when it came to anything other than standard operations. I've had difficulty with so many different applications, its impossible to list them all. AND the iMac doesn't come with a support booklet. If you are having problems with an application, you have to use a less-than-reliable computer searching HELP device. It also doesn't help that they have online support when your computer's modem has "gone bad"  
 
