This computer came with a Pentium 4 3.0Ghz, 1Gig of PC 1600 RAM, A 120Gig 7200 Hard Drive, quiet keyboard and Altec Lansing5.1 surround sound speakers.It also came with a 16x DVD-RW and CD-RW drive. When I placed the order for this computer I also added on the Dell Movie Studio Plus with FireWire and S-Video in and outputs. This video card was the ATI Radeon 120MB DDR Video Card and promised to do wonderful things with my home movie collection. I also upgraded the audio card to the Audiogy 2 SoundBlaster live 5.1. Once I placed the order and after the order was processed and on its way to me, I received a call from Dell saying that the upgraded video and audio cards were not available at the time of the order taking and that Dell has shipped them seperatly. They told me not to worry because it was easy to install them once I received the computer. I found this a little bizarre but I graciously complied, anxious to receive my mega machine. Actually I have installed extra memory cards and hard drives in the past so I doubted that this would be any different. I ordered my computer on Dec 20 2002 and did not receive it until Jan 15 2003. I'm glad I paid the extra 100 bucks for the 2 day shipping guarantee. When I received my computer I proceeded to install the upgraded video and audio cards which as promised arrived seperately a few days later. I installed both cards correctly with the help of a Dell technician on the phone. From this point on I have had nothing but problems. The computer never recognized either cards. I was on the phone day in and day out for 2 weeks trying to get tech support to help me figure out what was wrong. I was bounced around like a power spike from department to department hoping each time I would hear the voice of God telling me what the problem was. But sadly that day never came. I was confronted with short tempered tech support people, an ignorant and uncaring sales tribe and the most confused and disorderly customer service this side of a liquidation sale at Kmart. After several calls, arguments and upset stomachs Dell finally agreed to send out a technician and was nice enough not to charge me the 95 bucks an hour fee for it. The technician replaced the mother board. That didn't work. He came back the following week and changed both the audio and video cards, guess what, that didn't work. After I begged and pleaded for them to take back the computer, which they never did they finally sent me a second replacement computer last week. When I called customer service to find out why they sent me another computer, they were not aware of the situation. To add insult to injury, when I checked the packing list for this item it was missing both the audio and video cards!! Who the hell is running Dell I ask you? So here I sit in my home office with two brand new four thousand dollar plus Dell desktops which dont work whatsoever. I really wanted to do my video and audio editing on this computer and I had heard that Dell had a good product and even better tech support. I was so wrong. But don't feel to bad for me because when I purchased the computer I chose the pay next year deal which means that I have not paid for this item yet and never will since I cancelled my credit card. Somebody better come and pick these two Dells up soon and give me one what works before I put them both on Ebay and buy a Mac G4 
