Any Dell can be fit into the same category. Cheap but overpriced. Check out the reviews at www.epininions.com/cmhd_desktops-Dell-general  
Be sure to click on sort by date. I will start to have Dell of the week reviews.  
 
The Dell 2350(MPN-D235RH) is another example of great Gimmick pricing.  
 
Based on a comment for the celeron version of these Dell pieces. I felt I couldn't just alter my other review. However, since Dells have almost the same garbage in different flavors. I can write another piece and cover some of the missing issues.  
 
What makes this version different from the celeron version. Maybe you are PAYING $600 more for the privilege of saying you have a OEM version P4 Intel 2.5GHz processor. Wow, that upgrade must really hurt for investors impressed by the upsell of another OEM processor. OEM again means Dell is burning the clock on a 30 day warranty from Intel. Not you, the perspective. Your warranty on the processor will most likely have been expired several days / months before your machine ever ships. You'll never know. Except for the time your frustration and stress factors build as you wait for your machine to be fixed.  
 
The cases on any Dell are almost identical. A lot of research and money put into appeal, but not functionality. Can you believe a computer company is still installing 250W power supplies in their computers? Technology leader. What a joke. Sales leader of Junk is more appropriate. Maybe in the future, when Dell catches up with the technology leaders, a Dell case will support 10 bays as the majority of quality cases do. As well as a minimum 300-350W power supply.  
 
The only valuable piece of hardware in this Dell is actually the Harmon Kardon Speakers. And surprisingly Dell lets you know it is included in the system. Are you curious? Now ask who the manufacturers are for the rest of the computer.  
 
Wow, it comes with a 15" Flat screen. Right click on the screen. Go into settings tab. Click on advanced button. Pick monitor tab. Change the monitor frequency to 75 Hertz, which is a minimum cofortable setting for human vision. These very cheap flat screens will start freaking out above 70 Hertz. Plus again, An embarrassing manufacturer Dell is to embarrassed to disclose. And no Dell is not the manufacturer.  
 
Memory is coming down in pricing. But Microsoft is always requiring more. And other than being some of the lowest quality Dell memory for a computer. This is where Dell will make up for that low price. XP operating systems require having a minimum of 128MB to run effectively. If you need to add programs. You need to add memory. Dell upgrades are truly overpriced. So when you believe you are moving toward an Ultimate platform, You are really progressing toward an ultimate reaming. For a modern system you are really being mislead with only 128MB of memory. This model does come with 512MB. But what is it? It is not Dell memory. It only has a Dell logo on it.  
 
The Motherboard in this pile is a microboard. Great for an office environment, Internet only surfing, or elementary and pre-adolescents. Dell motherboards have very secretive Specs and very poor architecture. A good reason for a company to maintain a large repair and engineering staff. Bios is locked down and very difficult to enter. Almost every other manufacturer of motherboard is not afraid to give knowledgeable or trained individuals the capability to enter the bios settings. But then again, some people need to hide the truth. Most, if not all microboards have around 2 PCI slots and an AGP slot. They will have Integrated Video, LAN, and typically AC97 audio. Do you feel the surge of excitement when you find out your system has Intel 3d Extreme Graphics? OOOh! sorry truthfully you only an on board video chipset with 32MB capabilities. And it pulls from your memory cache. So, remember your 128MB system. It is now only about 96MB at full speed.  
 
When you move into CD-Roms. I was asked the question of what the difference is between a 48x and 52x. The answer is very little. around 400k per second. However, we are in the 21st century or so I had thought. That is not meant to be an offensive statement to the commentator by the way. That was an excellent question. It seems to me that 48x were available around the turn of the century or before. We sell DVD 16x for $65 off the shelf. And my cost is so insignificant between CD-rom and DVD that I hardly ever try to sell CD-Rom unless a perspective just has to pinch those pennies. I just wonder how much dust is being blown off those CD-Roms before they go into a supposed new Dell. This model does come with a 16x DVD-rom. But again who is the manufacturer? Why is Dell afraid to disclose who makes their parts? Sorry people their is nothing that Dell has actually made themselves except the Dell logo on the case and the sticker on their imaged software. And just remember, Upgrade means nice commission increase to a dell salesteam.  
 
The Hard drives in these systems are truly another joke. Or another question for turn of the century. 5400 RPM usually. That is almost as fast as a Volkswagon diesel car climbing a hill with a 5% grade. Let the old have a peaceful euthanization. Even 7200 RPM has been updated with 10K RPM hard drives. And 10K is as fast as owning a SCSI hard drive for a third of the price. You just can not Daisy chain several IDE hard drives. Another modern convenience is the development or hard drives with 8MB caches. Or memory on the hard drive. Hard to believe but it allows faster file accessing, and internet or web caching. Memory is local to the hard drive instead of pulling resources from the memory on the motherboard. This model surprisingly has a 7200 RPM HDD, But it does not have the 8MB cache and it is also an unknown or generic manufacturer that Dell is too embarrassed to disclose.  
 
One of the greatest jokes of owning a Dell machine is their Imaged software and included spamware. It is true some of the other large names use Imaged software. Most of the other names can have a full version operating system installed on them with little or no headaches. Plan on sticking with the Image disk or x-file the Dell where it belongs in some dumpster. The reason you receive Imaged software on systems like this is because of buying in bulk for one. Imaged CD-Rom media is probably pennies for companies like Dell. And they shave around $40 dollars per full OS media disk from Microsoft. If you are happy with your Dell after a few months, you will not care about having imaged Operating System media. If you are not, sorry can't use your media on different systems. You have to buy imaged software for different machine or purchase full version after learning from your pain. And do plan on a lot of pain if you wish to install full version OS's on a Dell system. Do not be mislead by home version either. Win 95, 98, millenium, and XP Home is garbage. I do not recommend, sell, or install this garbage unless a client already has made the mistake of owning it. If they can return it, I always recommend the wise move. Lock-ups, poor system resourcing, will not join a domain, No internet firewall. Hopefully, microsoft will euthanize this worthless, sad architecture. Invest in XP profesional without Dell, Gateway, or some other companies imaged garbage on the media. You will never regret it. Other than worthless operating system software you will also have several Gigabytes of useless spamware. Great publicity and marketing charges to hopeful companies to place junk and/or unwanted programs on you system. You can plan on losing up to 10GB of your system to this garbage (i.e. AOL, Bonzie buddie, music match jukebox, modem on hold, etc.) You really didn't get something for a great price. You still have to pay to get it or make it right in the end.  
 
Last, if not the greatest joke about Dell is their Service and warranty enhancements. As I have said in a previous review, it is a wise investment for a phone headset with a dell machine. When you call for support, you can rest your arms or twiddle your thumbs. Plus if you are a light sleeper you can rest while you wait for help. Next day support does not mean your system is fixed the next day. You will hopefully get a call, for a scheduled repair. Also, as our company is sub-contracted by a Dell agent, your support is usually provided by a sub-contracted local computer store or individual. You should not have to Pay an extra for something that is usually provided by manufacturers of quality components. Quality parts typically come with a 3 year manufacturer warranty. Some people have a tolerance for pain. If you plan on buying a Dell Plan on the enhancement for as long as you plan to have it. Or research some companies like ours, who stand behind their systems locally. We have been in this business for over 12 years with hundreds of computer builds and our phones are not ringing off the hook for returns or low quality systems.  
 
Case in point  
We just sold 2 systems to a client with this Dell comparison including a 17" Black LCD. Exactly what this system has with the included hidden specs for $1493 ea. The perspective had initiated an order with Dell, but called back for immediate termination after my following proposal:  
 
Blk window case w/ 320W ATX power and 2 80mm fans  
Aopen AK77 400N motherboard  
(400 MHz FSB, 5 PCI, 8x AGP, 6 ch audio, LAN)  
AMD XP2200 with Heatsink and Fan  
512MB PC2100 DDR memory  
WD 40GB w/ 8MB cache 7200 RPM  
Mitsumi 1.44 FDD Blk  
Sony 16x DVD-Rom Blk  
Gainsward Geforce MX400 64MB w/TV out  
Creative 56K modem  
Blk 104 key Standard, 3 button scroll, & 2 Pc 180W Spkr)  
Hyundai L70-S LCD 17" BLK/SLV  
Windows XP pro  
Limited 1 year warranty  
 
I sold 2 systems and made over $450 profit from each. After limited warranty if anything does happen to fail, rarely. Client pays shipping and we help with RMA. We don't have to worry about this promise because quality parts with 3 year warranties rarely fail. Also if you prefer an intel system as we are Intel and AMD partners, add $150 and my systems will still out-perform and stand above any Dell system. There are quality and Leading technology computer companies out there if you put some effort into the search. And if you are foolish or have the opportunity to pay those Dell upgrades. Instead of PAYING for it, INVEST and INVESTIGATE a more custom system. If you can break the $1000 dollar investment range, companies like ours will kick the crap out of any Dell quote for price, quality, and performance. Any company, who puts so much effort into marketing, needs it to sell low quality products. I truly do not mind making lots of money off of Dell service work. But the complaints are really over-whelming. And I really would like to recommend K-y or vaseline and tell Whiny Dell owners to accept the inevitable. Bend over and take Dell like a......  
 
I have to truly applaud Dell for their sales abilities. If you are willing to Invest $1500 dollars, You should have a great entry to mid level system. However, It will never be a Dell. Not in my opinion and I believe several of the silent majority as well. Or individuals who are to embarrassed to admit they feel like they flushed their money down the toilet. I hate seeing the pain on clients faces, when they enter our store with yet another fairly new Dell. "Please fix it, I can't get any help from Dell support.""I'm tired of being on the phone for what seems like hours with someone truly unhelpful.""Yes, I do have a service /warranty contract, little good it does me.""It's not even 6 months old, why the hell is it not working." "How much to fix it??"And the Dell pain goes on and on. Now riddle me this. If your sales people were not super friendly and helpful about selling a pile of crap would they still work for you? Of course Dell sales is exceptional. With as much money as Dell puts into Marketing and TV, It is no wonder people can follow their animals around the yard. Scooping up something to hide in a colorful, fancy wrapper. And calling it a Dimension, or whatever. There is always someone who will buy it.  
 
Overall  
 
Dells suck. Performance wise, Architecture wise, Modern parts are few and far between. Yes, it is cheap. Until the upgrades and enhancements come into play. Then you would have been better off researching local references. The most entertaining thing is to see reviews from people who have owned their Dells for less than 3-4 months. Please....Any intelligent person can put together a system and make it seem like the latest, fastest, and coolest rocket ship. Wait until you own it more than the return period or closer to expired warranties. Experience some Dell support. Than write your reviews. And hopefully, also weed out some of the Dell employees who are obligated to write reviews.  
 
If you like large names and fancy marketing, buy a gateway system. Ask for a full version Operating system. Have someone with experience do an install with pro version. SAY NO to free spamware. It's on the internet if you really want it. You will enjoy a lot less stress and aggravation. Or research and investigate some local companies and their references. Be smart and Be happy. Buying a computer is as important as shopping for a good vehicle. Dell is just a large, slick car lot.  
