The new Apple 12-inch Powerbook (PB) notebook computer is a sleek idea with some special features for a compact computer, but it overheats with extended use. Specifically, when using the computer for over one hour, and especially when multitasking with programs, (i.e. word processing and listening to a CD), the computer becomes exceedingly hot on the surface where the palm/wrists rest when using the keyboard and tracking pad. The excessive heat is not only distracting and unpleasant, it is unhealthy as heat inflames the tendon sheath associated with carpal tunnels syndrome (CTS).  
 
Notebook computers get hot, but the design and internal fan should dissipate the heat so it does not radiate upward on the working surface. This is a new compact model, and others have reported this over-heating design flaw; there are over 200 related postings on Apple's own website's discussion forum: (http://discussions.info.apple.com > PowerBook > PowerBook G4 12/17 Inch > Usage). This problem has also been discussed in other non-Apple affiliated sources.  
 
Apple's warranty for the computer is one year. In my experience with the 12-inch PB, I spent excessive time on the phone with Apple regarding the overheating. I took it in for repair twice, but with no improvement. Apple claims that it is performing within specifications and will not replace, refund, or allow me to trade in the computer for a different model.  
 
On March 26th, Apple released an article concerning the excessive heat: "PowerBook G4 (12-inch): Feels Warm to the Touch - Article ID:86307". In this Apple document, advice is provided to minimize the heat problem by making adjustments to the Power Manager Preference. Apple Technical Support has also recommended that I purchase a heat transfer device that goes under the PB to elevate it, and to put rubber pads where my hands rest as a barrier from the heat. This is all commendable advice, but it has not resolved the over-heating problem. More importantly, one should not pay top dollar for a computer advertised as the top model of its size, only to have to compromise certain features, how many programs operating, or speed, etc. One purchases such a high-end model computer precisely because for high-performance to handle more complicated tasks.  
 
Discussion speculates that in its efforts to produces a powerful, compact, metal encased computer before others, Apple overlooked that the aluminum casing readily radiates heat, (IBM's ThinkPad notebook computer has metal bottom and top, but a plastic working surface).  
 
If you are considering switching to Apple because it advertises itself as an out-of-the-box, user-friendly, problem-free alternative to PCs, I would not consider this computer. Although I am new to Apple, and obviously disappointed with this initial experience, I am not anti-Apple: just use caution . I recommend you visit Apple's own discussion forum on its website before purchasing any of their products. Certain flaws, such as overheating, will not be apparent until you find yourself at home with the computer. Also, I do not recommend buying the first line of a new model computer, but wait until it has been out a while so the problems can be worked out. 
