I've owned my titanium powerbook for 3 months.  
It's beauty is apparent in pictures, but you have to own and use it for awhile  
to learn of its problems.  
 
-fragile (titanium is strong but this machine's shell is paper-thin and even titanium is weak when stretched like  
onion skin)  
 
-mine arrived with a non-functioning hard drive  
 
-mine arrived with a DVD drive that refused to give back DVDs unless I forced them out  
 
-mine arrived with a DVD drive that could not run Cds or DVDs that had certain images on them  
(that is, the decor on certain dvd's, the little picture on the back, is sometimes printed too thick  
or too uneven for the DVD drive to handle, and the DVD drive goes nuts when presented with a Cd  
like this; ordinary pc's can handle this but the Titanium powerbook has little to no tolerance for  
any CD/DVD deviation from perfect).  
 
-mine arrived with a battery that cuts out and FALLS OUT (the battery actually fell out once when I lifted  
the machine. It bounced off the table and back up hitting AND DENTING the underside of the powerbook!)  
 
-I sent the machine back and APPLE replaced the DVD and HARDDRIVE;  
 
-Then I discovered the battery problem and they sent me a new battery for free, redesigned so as not to fall out.  
 
-The next thing that happened was my fault. I dropped the powerbook, only about 4 inches to the tabletop, but I dropped it, AND IT COMPLETELY CRUMPED UP!! Like a car with crumple zones, and that's when I saw how THIN the titanium really is. It's absurdly thin. Any thinner and you'd be able to see through it.  
 
I paid for this repair. Apple returned it all fixed, completely revamped.  
 
Two weeks later, and believe me I handled it with kid gloves, VERY carefully after its return, two weeks later  
it froze every time I booted up. I spent 2.5 hours on Apple tech support. The guy gave up. I'm sending it back  
in for a free repair yet again.  
 
This will mark the FOURTH repair since I've owned this machine. I've owned it for THREE MONTHS!!!!  
 
Okay, one of those repairs was my fault, so consider it THREE REPAIRS. I suggest to you that  
3 repairs in 3 months is 3 too many.  
 
This machine is beautiful but fragile and tempermental, probably owing to its slimness. I imagine all sorts  
of problems stem from the slim space Apple has fit this machine into.  
 
If you buy it don't say I didn't warn you.  
