It pains me to rate my iMac so low because I have been a Mac booster for many years, after converting from a PC. I will say up front that I am not a computer nerd and need something simple that I can operate without reading a lot of books or going to school.  
 
A long time ago I returned a new desktop PC to Gateway because I couldn't operate it intuitively (my fault), and Gateway graciously took it back, no questions asked. I then bought a new little Mac 160 notebook and was immediately able to operate it. I used it for years until it finally smoked its motherboard and had to be replaced. The next computer was another Mac notebook, a 5300 CS, which was not one of Apples finest products, but nonetheless it was fairly efficient and easy to operate. It finally lost the top half of its color LCD and ran out of memory and I was again forced to buy a new computer. The jazzy new iMac looked like just the ticket. I now own iMac serial number 0T213E6FMAY.  
 
My iMac was trouble from the start and I got no help from Apple other than advice, and after 90 days I couldn't even get that unless I forked over an extra [$$$] for an extended warranty, which I did.  
 
Here are just a few of my complaints:  
1. The iMac functions pretty much like a PC and is no longer as intuitive as the earlier Apple products they built their ease of operation reputation on.  
2. At times the screen locks up, the "OFF" button won't work, and the only way to shut it down is to unplug it from the wall.  
3. The "OFF" button is located near the left-back of the body in a hard-to-reach place, accessible only with the left hand, not the right, a very poorly thought out location.  
4. There is no "ON-OFF" switch on the keyboard.  
5. The so-called "SLEEP" function doesn't always work like it should, certainly not like the earlier notebooks. It sometimes awakens hung up.  
6. Sometimes when the shut-down command is given it only goes into the sleep mode, can't be shut down by the "OFF" button, and has to be unplugged from the wall for a forced shut-down. On re-booting after such a forced shut down the system has to go through an automatic hard drive assessment before it is again functional. Even after such a shutdown and hard drive assessment the system sometimes doesn't work right.  
7. Apple has loaded so much unnecessary "bloatware" bells and whistles into their OX10 and 9.2.2 operating systems there is no way an ordinary user can operate it easily. Even my paid Apple authorized technicians have had difficulties working out the wrinkles. I never know what to expect next.  
8. The optical mouse clicker was too sensitive, even at full adjustment for firmer spring resistance. I replaced it with a Logitech optical mouse.  
 
After years of using Apple products I may go back to a PC because my iMac no longer offers the advantages Macs once had over PC's. It doesn't matter to me if the problems stem from Apple software or hardware; the trouble remains and is still real. Software unready for the market is just as bad as a defective motherboard design. A top notch professional computer technician recently told me that Mr. Steve Jobes' tech meddling is responsible for the newest G4 Macs no longer operating with the traditional intuitive ease of the earlier Macs, to say nothing of the continual technical glitches.  
 
I have heard similar complaints from other iMac owners. You won't see this in the advertising, and some iMac users are reluctant to admit the weaknesses of their expensive new toys. I am not one of them.  
