I've been a "Mac girl" ever since the introduction of the Classic and I must say that this is one of the best computers I've ever owned. Many of the other Apple computers and components I've owned have been plagued with problems, yet after 6 months this one has been virtually problem-free. Although I had just purchased a Snow iMac in late 2000, once I saw the ad for the Flat Panel iMac I knew this was the computer for me. The original iMac and iMovie for OS 9 had got me hooked on editing home movies and I was drooling over the built in DVD-R in the new model....I had to have it.  
 
Getting the computer was the only major problem I've had due to a release date that Apple couldn't meet. Once I ordered the system it took months to come in because they weren't shipping, but I believe those problems are gone now. When the computer arrived, the flat panel screen was cocked and the fix was too difficult to complete alone as it required opening the flat panel screen. Apple tech support was very understanding of the problem and quickly set up a case for me and it was fixed at a local shop within a week.  
 
I was a little nervous about switching operating systems since everything I used was on OS 9, but the learning curve isn't steep. OS X is very sleek and much more user friendly and stable than OS 9, and for the few programs that you can't get on OS X, it even runs OS 9 in the background if you want! OS X comes with all the tools you need (except the video camera) for making professional looking DVD's of whatever you want. In 6 months I have already attended an event, video taped it, then edited it with iMovie and sold 80 copies of the DVD's I burned with my new system. At $22 a piece it has almost paid for itself!  
 
Unlike Apple's previous attempts at stylish computers, they did not sacrifice function for fashion in this model. Not only is it ingeniously "cute," it also runs extremely cool (no burning hot CD's coming out of THIS drive). It is the quietest computer I've ever owned as well. The flat panel is beautiful and although I've seen others complain of dead pixels, I don't have any yet. (I also believe this is just the "nature of the beast" with flat panel monitors) The screen pivoting feature is wonderful in a room where I am constantly showing my work to people around me. It will run even the most graphic intensive game and multi-task like a champ. I'm disappointed that they are now coming out with a 17" model, as I would have waited for this had I known. I know I know, you never know with computers and whatever you buy is typically outdated within 6 months anyways, but with this machine I went by past experience with iMacs always being 15 inches. I figured if they hadn't come out with a 17" at this point that they redesigned the whole machine, they never would lol.  
 
The only complaint I have is really just with Apple's policies. I just got this machine in February and they've already come out with a new operating system that I'm required to pay *full price* for in order to upgrade. This is ridiculous, to me they should at least offer a little cheaper version if you already own the operating system. I am also a little "torqued" that they are charging for iTools. Not because I think it's not worth it (well, worth $100 a year? I dunno...) but because they had always "promised" that at the very least the email would continue to be free. At this point, they aren't even offering different levels of iTools (like mail only $20/year, mail +website $40/year, etc) you just have to pay $100 or not get it. But for years the free iTools has been one of their strongest selling points and they advertise it on every machine. For a company that relies heavily on word of mouth advertising from Mac to PC users, I would think that it wouldn't want to reduce it's loyal customer base by making them feel slighted.  
