This review is a bit long but if you're even slightly interested in switching to the iMac please take the time to read it (you don't want to spend $2K on just any old computer do you?)  
1st of all the individuals who wrote the 1* reviews obviously don't own an iMac and probably own a lot of MS stock so they are Apple bashing. I am in the military and have used PC's since there were PC's. I spent one tour as the IT manager for my command. My only experience w/ Macs had been at my kid's school and with my minister. I was extremely skeptical of Apple and researched for several months before deciding on the iMac. I was tired of having the BBB (big beige box) next to my desk. I had seen the new iMac in the news during its intro and was immediately smitten. I ask you why in the yr 2K3 do computers still look like they did 20 years ago? Apple broke the mold with the original iMac and then vaporized it with the new iMac. I've had mine for about one week now and my wife is about ready to divorce me. The engineering and design that went into the iMac make it the most usable computer on the market. Try moving a regular LCD monitor with one finger to position it precisely where you want it. I can bring the iMac?s monitor right over the keyboard for typing and surfing or put it up high to watch DVD?s with my kids, truly awesome. The 16X9 aspect ratio is great for everything, especially browsing w/ two windows open, one on each side of the screen. I get so tired of hearing how you can't upgrade it. How many average PC users actually crack a case and upgrade their PC's? Not many I'll wager. If you're worried about the iMac's 1GHz processor vs a 2.x GHz PC clone, don't. I run a 2.4 GHz at work and I see no difference in everyday apps. I suppose if you're a game freak you'll want a PC but my kids and I play games on consoles now and use the computer for important things like the wonderfully educational and preloaded World Book encyclopedia. If you're really interested read up on how the G4 chip processes in comparison w/ the PC chips. Set up was a breeze, about 15 mins including unpacking. The speakers look & sound incredible, and there's no power cord! Do you really need a subwoofer w/ a computer (more wires)? I was unsure of the Apple one button mouse but now I'm sure, no carpel tunnel as I move my hand around more the only thing it lacks is a wheel as you can hold the control key and pop up a menu window anywhere (you can add a multi-button mouse if you want). I love the "Dock" that holds all frequently used program icons, it makes opening an app a delight as each icon blows up when moused over. I have yet to use the super drive for burning DVD's or CD's but it plays/loads them fast and fine. The iMac is very quiet and just wait until you see it sleeping for the first time, way cool. Lastly if you know your way around MS Windows then don't fear Mac OS. I estimate it took an hour to familiarize myself w/ the important parts of the system. Go look at the iMac, talk to Mac users, read the switch testimonies and make you choice. Anyone who doesn't give the iMac a test drive and buys a clone will miss a great opportunity to own a truly useful home computer.  
