I bought this computer almost 4 months ago. Still works:).  
 
But let's review it. First what I liked about this model is that it is really everything in one. It contains all(still, computer world so fast changing, that almost everyday there is more invented, so correct me if I will be wrong) possible media readers. Well someone can wonder why there is floppy disc reader? i mean floppy is really old fashioned and probably will be gone sooner or later. But meanwhile, there is people who will use it. Other readers include Sony Memory stick, SD card, Smart Media, Compact Flash, Pc Card slot. Well can't forget to mention that there is 4 USB and one FireWire port. Also 60 GB hard drive... my god, this computer probably made for file storage... But I must tell that is computer isn't perfect. First- display. It is advertised as extreme brightness and wide vieving angles, at least sticker on computer say so. Well it is bright, but don't forget that it is ONLY XGA ! I can compare this computer with other computers, with xga lcd. It is brighter, but comparing with sxga (I am not talking about uxga)it is not so good. I mean brightness is not all. How about picture detail, crispness? Besides, that brightness adjustment button is not necessary. When you turn brightness off, the view on screen is dull. Well might be it save some battery life... Speaking about battery. Battery's life is too short to call this computer a laptop. It is not enough mobile. By the way, if your battery is fully charged and you turn computer on, don't be fooled- battery monitor show that you can use it for 3 hours, but after about 5 minutes, it show that only a little bit than hour left(correct time).  
Ok, I can sacrifice short battery life- my laptop is used as desktop replacement anyway, so I am happy to have one peace instead of 4-6 basic ones. But lets continue cons list. ok, how about brand name? It is made by Sharp. So it means that it is not so easy to find this laptop in every store, by the way, recently even in circuit city couldn't find it... Must be was out of stock or something?.. Still i guess that other brands could charge more for the same stuff. I bought it for more than 1700 $(with a 100$ mail in rebate,and some other catches:)) but now it cost about 1300-1400. processor speed seems a champion when you look at the data sheet (pentium 4, 2.8 ghz), but when you use a laptop, it seems it is a little bit slower than it suppose to be. Especially when you turn it on after it was turned off. I use a password to protect it, so it takes couple extra seconds, but when it is on, I can't use any programs, because it freeze for about 5 minutes.unless i leave a program running and close lid, so it shuts down, but it is faster to start it.  
Actius rd10 is locked to microsoft windows xp home edition. So I guess it wouldn't be popular among computer pros, who want linux or even other windows... My opinion is that windows '95 is better than xp. But I cannot mess up with OS... ussually when i play dvd and laptop run on batteries, dvd play with some interupptions. It is like running on pause step by step, frame by frame, and again at normal speed. Burned music on cds sounds metalish like music was performed with bad equipment, even using other cd players. Upgrading lovers will be disappointed when they find out that memory is upgradable only 256 mb. When hard drive fills up coputer slow down a lot.  
Computer fan run almost all the time, and it is louder than some desktop's.  
 
Ok I guess I said enough to prevent from buying this item. But if I had an opportunity to choose a laptop again, I most likely would buy this one again. At least for these all options- pentium 4(2.8 ghz), bunch of media readers, spacy hard drive, cd-rw/dvd drive, NOT shared video memory, I can play games perfectly. It has wireless 802.11b, even I don't use at all, but it is nice to have:). Laptop don't have printer port, so you will either use a cord-adaptor or one of 4 usb ports. You can even lock this computer using special lock.  
I bought this computer as a desktop replacement, after I study other computer data sheets. It seems that even after 4 months this computer is more advanced than others, and price is attractive.  
