After 20 million plus records sold St. Lunatic Nelly has started his own record label called Derrty Entertainment. The first artist to drop an album from Derrty is none other than fellow St. Lunatic Murphy Lee, with his debut album Murphy's Law. The "School Boy" along with the other St. Lunatics dropped the groups debut Free City back in 2001. After that album dropped Nelly fans started to really notice Murphy Lee(Which aint sayin much). After that many commercial artist also noticed Murphy Lee. He featured on The "Roc Da Mic" remix which also featured Nelly, Freeway & Beanie Sigel, and he he featured on the "Welcome to Atlanta" remix wich, Snoop, P. Diddy and Jermaine Dupri.  
 
Murphy Lee is the second St. Lunatic other than Nelly to release a solo album. Ali was the first and he record bombed worst than Baghdad. After Ali's dismal sales Murphy Lee is setting out to prove that he can sell. The first real single for this album is Wat Da Hook Gon Be. Even though Shake Ya Tailfeather is getting ridiculous radio and video play that was actually a single from that Bad Boys Soundtrack. Murphy's Law is all about having fun.  
 
1. Be Myself(Intro) - N/A - Just a sample of a woman singing I Just wanna be myself.  
 
2. Don't Blow It(feat. City Spud) - $/$ - Opens up with a City Spud phone message. Murphy Lee gives a poor intro and then you can barely hear City Spud chorus over Murphy Lee yelling. The beat is instantly a commercial sh!tter. Murphy Lee takes the first verse and spits some really weak punchlines with a sad attempt at humor. He continues using weak metafores and punchlines. In his last verse it is still pretty weak but some of his lyrics are a bit better at first then he just falls off a cliff.  
 
3. Hold Up(feat. Nelly) - $/$ - This beat is of the commercial club type. Murphy starts off and spits some real garbage. Nelly is on the chorus and it is f!ckin terrible "I dont wanna leave by myself, Boy you aint gotta leave by yourself, Sh!t...TAXI". Murphy Lee raps about him and how women can't get enough of him. "I hit em up like Blu Cantrell, He-He-He-He-He-He-He-Hell" Murphy take the mic again for another agonizing verse full of pimpin' and bullsh!t.  
 
4. Grandpa Game Tight - 0 - This sh!t is just embarassing. This clown refers to himself as Grandpa Game Tight.He talks about girls and his pimpin. He is singing on the chorus about his Grandpa Game Tight game. His lyrics on the second verse aren't too bad but the subject matter is awful, and once the chorus comes around again you will be slamming your head against the wall. In his wack a$$ last verse he talks about his different women and pimping tendencies. The chorus comes around for the last time and you will have an urge to break something after that garbage. Trust me its terrible. The beat on the other hand kind of saves this stink. It is commercial but it doesn't sound bad and the violins add nice touch. Still an egregious trac.  
 
5. Luv Me Baby(feat. Jazze Pha & Sleepy Brown) - $$$ - Murphy talks about his dream woman on this track. He raps about what he wants from that special lady on this track. Jazze Pha takes care of the chorus and Sleepy does his thing at the end of the song. This song is commercial as hell but it isn't all that bad and much better than that bullsh!t Grandpa Sh!t Raps.  
 
6. Murphy's Law(feat. Darius Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - Darius Bradford and St. Louis Slim making a speech.  
 
7. Cool Wit It(feat. St. Lunatics) - $$ - The beat on this track is pretty tight, its laid back and on the chorus a sax jumps in along with some humming from a woman. However when these guys rap they end every bar with "Cool Wit It". Now anyone who has consistantly read my review knows that I hate that unoriginal wack sh!t. No need to say much more the only thing of value is the chorus.  
 
8. This Goes Out(feat. Nelly, Roscoe, Cardin, Lil Jon & Lil Wayne) - $$$$ - This beat features some hitting bass and synthesized effects along with Nelly in the background yellin "Ooooo". Lil Jon as usual is yellin "Yeah" when the track opens. Murphy Lee spits some above average pucnhlines in his verse. Nelly has a sing along chorus. Young Roscoe grips the track and spits fire. Sure his verse is a bit commercial but he rips this sh!t crazy. Cardin spits some commercial a$$ rhymes about his pimpin and ruins it. Lil Jon comes on yelling "Okaaaaayyyyy". Everyone know Lil Jon doesn't really rhymes but all he does is yell with doubles of him yelling in the background which tends to just make noise, but here it isn't bad because his verse is only about 20 seconds long. Lil Weezy f!cking rips this up ugly. He continues the fire that was recently heard on his sqad mixtapes and I am really hyped for his next joint. Of course what song with Lil Jon doesn't end with him yelling at the end of a song.  
 
9. What Da Hook Gon Be(feat. Jermaine Dupri) - $$ - Jermaine Dupri ask what the hook gonna be and Murphy Lee answers he doesn't need a hook...But that IS the hook. Well Murphy spits more commercial lyrics than a TV. JD on the chorus is sh!t because he is sh!t and everything he does is sh!t and he along with Baby The Birdman are on my hip-hop sh!tlist. Not the worst song on this album but it damn sure is below average.  
 
10. So X-Treme(feat. King Jacob and Prentice Church) - 0 - This song has a very laid back beat. All three of these guys rap pimp type of lyrics. The beat is so laid back that after a few seconds all you will hear is Z's. Yes this muthaf!cka is boring. Elementary Rhymes and bored beat equal terrible song.  
 
11. How Many Kids You Got(feat. Darious Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - These two ask each other how many kids and baby momma's they have. Sh!tty skit.  
 
12. I Better Go(feat. Avery Storm) - $$$1/2 - In this song Murphy Lee speaks of a past love and how it went wrong. Murphy Lee comes correct with his lyrics but it wouldn't sound so bad if he didn't do that Nelly sing rapping and herre, thurr sh!t. Murphy Lee talks about how he caught her cheating on him. He tells how the more time they spent together the more they just made each other sick. Avery Storm does a phenomenal job on the chorus. The beat is great for this type of song.  
 
13. Red Hot Riplets(feat. St. Lunatics) - $$$ - Right off the top we get a madly commercial beat and Mr. Commercial himself Nelly opening up the track, rapping about how no one can mess with him and how he is just making sure his offspring are gonna be rich. Ali and Nellys chorus is plain sh!t. Kyjuan takes the second verse and it isn't bad at first then he starts talkin some wack sh!t about how his girl is All That and a Bag of Chips(Circa 1991). Murphy Lee once again spits some above average lyrics but his sh!tty sing rapping ruins it terribly. Ali comes up last and for some reason I am feeling his verse. He spits some commercial a$$ elementary rhymes but for some reason i am feeling it. Maybe its his flow i don't know.  
 
14. Regular Guy(feat. Seven) - $$$$1/4 - Murphy Lee starts off with rap singing and one thing that is heard off the start is his herre bullsh!t. The beat is for the clubs and is sickly commercial. Seven's chorus also is clubby and commercial as hell. However that is where the wack sh!t on this track ends. Murphy Lee does some minor sing rap but for the most part he spits flames. He gives some braggadocio and tell of how people cant mess with the Lunatics and also how he isn't going to change for anyone. He tells of how he had a number one song while still in high school. This is the best song on this album.  
"Im with five individuals/  
They say we not original/  
We all started underground like digital/  
Now the haters lookin' pitiful/  
We humble and hospitable/  
But lyrical we still sh-sh!t on you/"  
 
15. God Don't Chill(feat. King Jacob & Prentice Church) - 0 - These two clown Prentice Church and King Jacob are garbage as f!ck. The first song was only one song so I couldn't come to that conclusion. After this however I wonder why the hell Murphy Lee put these clowns on an already slacking album. This dumb a$$ song is once again about pimpin and partying. Murphy Lee spits the garbage also. The production on this track is lazy. The chorus is album stupid sing raps from Murphy Lee.  
 
16. Murphy Lee(feat. Zee) - $$ - Commercial a$$ beat. This track sees Murphy Lee kicking game to a girl at a party. Zee does a great job on the chorus for this type of song. Murphy Lee's lyrics are pretty average here and he does the err, urr crap again and he also rap sings as usual.  
 
17. Head From A Midget(feat. Darius Bradford & St. Louis Slim) - N/A - These Brothas aint funny. Period!  
 
18. Shake Ya Tailfeather(feat. Nelly & P. Diddy) - $1/2 - Since this song is so sh!tty I wont write a new review for it i'll just use the one I used for Bad Boys II Soundtrack. We got P. Diddy and Nelly on the same track wit Murphy Lee. Then again this song gets ya bouncin in the club no doubt so I guess you gotta respect it for what it is, and it is a pretty good party track. Lyrically Nelly spits his herre, thurr, abuse of the english language. The best rapper in St. Lunatics, Murphy Lee spits some mediocre sh!t but damn that "I'm not hard, I got women to handle that/They be like, he the man when I'm really a Thunder Cat" was f!ckin terrible. This cat also said "I'm Young Like Turk, I like that Cash and that Money" Then at the end his "Im starvin like Marvin Gurrl(girl)/I got 16 bars of ferre(fire)" was...whooo. As I said before this is a club hit, but as a song in general it just suck!...  
 
19. Same ol' Dirty(feat. Toya) - $$$1/2 - The beat on this song is pretty good and gives you a beat you would find in a 70's blaxploitation movie and it serves its purpose in this retrospective track. We have Murphy Lee rappin about back in the day when he was a young buck. Well at least in his first and third verses. In the second verse he ruins it spitting terrible commercial a$$ lyrics. Toya does a superb job on the chorus however helping to uplift this track. In the third verse Murphy Lee talks about the struggles he and the St. Lunatics had to deal with before Nelly blew up.  
 
Like I said earlier Murphy Lee's rapping is just like Nelly. He is all about having fun. He could care less about introspective rapping, or gangsta rapping, he wants to talks about partying, and pimpin hoes, with a few love stories thrown in. You will not find once on this track where Murphy Lee raps about killing, shooting, stabbing, or beatting the living hell out of someone. If you wanna hear that go buy DMX, he has plenty of it. For the most part Murphy Lee's guest appearances are really weak except on This Goes Out. Also some of the singles he got for the chorus's such as Toya, Zee & Avery Storm do great jobs. When Nelly and the St. Lunatics show up on a track for the most part its pretty wack. King Jacob and Prentice Church are some of the sh!ttiest rappers i've ever heard and hope I never have to hear them again. The stupid Darius Bradford and St. Louis Slim interludes aren't funny at all and are just a waste of wax. I really wouldn't recommend this to anyone but if you are a Nelly or St. Lunatics fan you will like this. Why? Because you f!cking like Nelly. Then again I wont front when I was a couple years younger I was a Nelly fan, just check my Country Grammar review. 
