Let’s just face the facts at hand – even if Obie Trice was a garbage rapper (and he is) – he’s packed by the Superman of Hip-Hop, the seemingly invincible Eminem - able to make death threats in 16 bars, and pistol whip fools for jealousy, everything that Eminem touches really does turn gold. Taking executive producer credits on his protégés debut album ”Cheers” – Obie Trice has been literally blessed with success before he even said one whack word. From the promise that in several copies of his album are golden tickets to meet the blonde one (why not meet Obie? Oh yeah – no one cares), to the cornball lead single – the sky is the limit.  
 
The aforementioned lead single entitled ”Got Some Teeth” is classic Eminem material – from its attempt at humor (it fails), to its elementary lyrics: and this is my favorite song/ to sing along/ when the deejay throws it on/ and if I leave here tonight and I fall asleep/and wake up/ hopefully she got some teeth”. Right. Raise the roof yo – or, let’s not and pretend we did.  
 
”Average Man” finds Obie busting more caps than the folks that don’t like 50 Cent, which brings me to another important point: Hip-Hop is seeing the resurgence of thug mentality and while there are plenty of artists on higher planes, the mainstream is so convoluted with thuggery and ignorance that it’s enough to break my b-boy loving heart. The bad boy persona continues with ”Cheers”, a mediocre track that can only be described as well – mediocre.  
 
”Don’t Come Down” has an ill sample, but then Obie had to go and mess it up by rapping. The parallels to Slim Shady continue with Obie’s apparent disdain for the woman who gave him life and sadness for the hardships he experience growing up as a young ghetto youth – which apparently is the only requirement for getting a record deal these days. While Eminem does get the executive producer credit – his beats are just the swap meet equivalent of Dr. Dre’s harder and edgier material and so all of the tracks produced by Em sound budget. Perpetual hook singer Nate Dogg stops by to bore me with his voice on ”The Set Up”, where Obie rambles on about a shady woman (yawn). Dr. Dre also gets his flow on on ”Sh!t Hits The Fan” - and while I like the sound of Dre’s voice, his flow is just not getting it so his best bet is to stay behind the boards, Obie’s on this track too – but he sucks.  
 
”We All Die One Day” finds two thugs (50 and Obie) uniting for what sounds like a cheap mix tape track. The gun talk, don’t f($8k with me talk keeps on going like the energizer bunny and it wasn’t original on track 1 and at 9 – it’s wearing thin on my nerves. D-12 fans (all one of you) can be happy since Kon Artis guests on ”Spread Yo Sh!t” whose only savior is that the beat is a head nodder.  
 
The one good track (and I use the word good loosely) on “Cheers” would be ”Hands On You” and maybe it’s only because Obie sounds like 50 Cent’s Hip-Hop stepchild. Featuring Eminem – the song has a strong hook, average beat on this thugged-out love song of sorts.  
 
I might be alone in my beliefs – but I feel like lately Busta Rhymes has been good lately on everyone’s material but his own – case in point would be ”Oh!”, despite the fact that the music sounds like the score from “Gremlins” – Obie and Busta sound pretty damn good on the track and it would get my pick for one of the better tracks.  
 
 
- Final Thoughts -  
 
While I respect everyone’s right to try to help their friends out once they get famous, everybody can’t be a star and Obie Trice is just not a star. His rhymes are average at best, his flow is monotonous and the fact that he seemingly can’t stand independent of Marshall Mathers, doesn’t help his cause either. So if you’re thinking about getting a shiny gold ticket, don’t even waste your time – its back to the drawing boards for Obie: real name, too many gimmicks.  
 
Great Music to Play While: counting the minutes to the album ends.  
