He gained about 3 inches, got a Jheri curl, got some tattoo's and dropped the Lil off of his name. He's a big boy now and his voice is starting to crack. "Hip-Hop's Top-Tot" as RollingStone proclaims is now back to release his third album. Now that he is all grown up he is writing his own rhymes. Maybe this is a positive considering JD was writing his previous stuff, but than again it could be worst. Lil Bow Wow's first albums were purely commercial, with catchy hooks and forgettable elementary lyrics. But he was a junior high kid so that is forgivable. Now however is high school time and he needs to step it up, or become an afterthought. Sure everyone loves a little kid rappin because it is just "so cute". Well with no furthur adue lets check out Unleashed  
 
1. Get it Poppin' - $/$ - We get some dog barking and then Swizz comes on the track making noise in the background and on the chorus. Lil Bow Wow should change his name to Pretty Boy Wow, and team up the P.B.T. aka Pretty Boy Thug...Then again P.B.T. would lyrically outshine him on every track. Man, Lil Bow Wow talks about the girl and booty and how aint no brother is as fly as he is. The beat that Swizz Beat drop isn't bad, but its ruined by Lil Bow Wow.  
 
2. Let's Get Down(feat. Baby) - 0 - Terrible song... I wont dare to explain. Turn on MTV, BET or the radio if you wanna hear this mess. Baby should be expelled from the rap game. He suffers from the disease of wackneitis, which is apparently contageous, and he's touched Bow Wow. Even worst the chick on the chorus doesn't even sound sexy, which what she's trying to do...What a mess...Check out more on this song here  
"I know a girl named Kiesha/  
She's no groupie/  
but far from a star, 22's made her choose me/  
Like Ooh Wee/  
Tellin all her friends in the Benz, he don't really look 16 do heeee/"  
Tragic...I feel sorry for the beat, even though it's terrible.  
 
3. Eighteen - $$ - He is talking to all the "youngn's" out here...Anyway he raps about when he talks eighteen. He wants a girl friend, some cars and everything...He then says "It's Weezy-Baby"...Im thinkin my n!gga Lil Wayne gonna jump up and rip the track, nope Bow Wow calls himself that. Last year when I turned Eighteen i had these wishes too, but I know I could write a better song than this. He then gives us some terrible news stating he's "Unfadable", so we will be bombarded with garbage from him for a long time.  
 
4. Follow Me - 0 - Another commercial beat. After listening to this track I don't respect Bow Wow as an artist anymore, therefore he is still LIL Bow Wow to me. Back to the track. He gives advice to all the youngsters out there if they wanna be like him they must have they pants hangin off the @ss, they must have the sticker show on there New Era fitted cap. You must be cocky. Its a must you rock two chains, clothes over sized and of course you gotta have the sickenin rims...I will add on another one for the youngster wanting to be like Lil Bow Wow...You absolutely MUST write wack rhymes. Anything more is unacceptable, seriously!  
 
5. My Baby(feat. Jagged Edge) - $$$ - This beat is pretty tight for the type of song this is and Lil Bow Wow jumps on the track with lyrical feces. Well it really isn't that bad, but it seems like Lil Bow Wow is kind of trying to be like Jay-Z here. From the uh-huh-uh-huh's that Jay-Z does to his overall flow. This song is about Lil Bow Wow and a girl from the time he met her and lost her and wants her back. Jagged Edge does a nice job on the chorus. At the end of the song we get a freestyle from Lil Bow Wow. Then a voice states "Thats what I'm talkin bout, thats old school", which is just blatant disrespect to any old school rapper.  
 
6. The Don, The Dutch - $$1/2 - The Neptunes drop this club banger. This beat is tight for the clubs. Lil Bow Wow spits some aight lyrics on this track. He spits braggadocio on the first verse, then he goes on to spit some cocky rhymes of him and women. He talks of a chick at one of his shows. The chorus is track, but the chick singing does a nice job.  
 
7. The Movement - $$$$$ - Hold Up!!! Do I hear a hint of introspection from Lil Bow Wow...Check that I respect him now. Bow Wow raps about being a young black child in the ghetto. He talks about how the ghetto has a terrible rap, but stuff happens due to cultural bias. He talks about how the world is placed on his/our generation. He tells about the wars. He says that the generation is in the crossfire. He tells that we never get answers when he ask question, but they only tell us to pull our pants up. The chorus is tight and sums up the situation of a teenager in the hood. I know this song isn't really a five star song...More like a 4 star song, but on this album it sticks out like a sore thumb...In a positive way.  
"I'll probably be banned/But I gotta take a stand/  
Cause you see what happen when Eminem make ya stand/  
He just buff, be cautious/  
See we all targets/  
My thoughts are sporadic/  
I feel so asthmatic/  
Outta breath, Sic it UP(?)/  
So we taking action against the democracy, full of hypocracy/  
I know its more to me than my hip-hop eyes can see/  
That's what the homies said to me"  
 
8. I Can't Lose - $$$ - This beat is commercial as hell, but its still pretty tight. Bow Wow spits some braggadocio stating that all the garbage in the rap game is gonna end. He does throw in his raps about girls loving him, but form the most part it isn't commercial bullsh!t. He shouts out Jay-Z, Ja, Nelly, Nas, Eminem & Jadakiss, but he says he is holding it down for the kids. He throws out a challege to all the young rappers stating "No Rapper in my age bracket, is makin it happen, the way that I made it happen". This whole song is pretty much a battle rhymes towards the younger rappers...Such at the horrendous Lil J.  
 
9. Hey Lil Mamma(feat. Jagged Edge) - $/$ - See My Baby...But a bit worst, he raps to a girl, sayin he wants to come over a watch a movie...sure.  
 
10. I Got Y'all - 0 - This song features Bow Wow rappin to the females again. This is another Let's Get Down. Another wack track full of Bow Wow claiming he is the best cat in the world and telling the girls that no other boys are close to his status... Not only is this track wack, but it also loses the respect I had for him. Back to Lil Bow Wow.  
 
11. I'll Move On(feat. Mario) - $$1/2 - The song features the Teen R&B sensation & Chris Rock look-alike Mario. This beat sounds strikingly similar to Bounce Wit Me. Lil Bow Wow spits some pretty introspective lyrics in his first verse about opinions on him and his life, but he is just trying to grow up. After that however, Lil Bow Wow goes back to the commercial garbage that we are accustomed to. Mario does a superb job on the chorus  
 
12. To My Mama(feat. Amerie) - $$$1/2 - Lil Bow Wow drops a nice heartfelt song about his mom. He talks about his life before he got big, and now how he is helping take care of her now. That My Mama, My Roaddogg stuff is crazy annoying however. Amerie, really shines on this track and helps it out a load.  
 
13. Im Back(Hidden Bonus Track) - $$ - This song has a west coast type of sound to it. Not quite G-Funk but tight nonetheless. Lil Bow Wow raps some purely commercial lyrics here. He raps about his fans and the sitcoms he appears on. He raps to the girl and he talks about his ride.  
"Had to retire my Mickey Mouse, had gotten to old/  
Peach Fuzz on my lip, homeboy, I'm grown"  
Come on duke, just look at the album cover...You still look like a lil boy, put that Mickey Mouse chain back on!  
 
Ok Now I know this album is for the little girlies so Bow Wow can come over and get som pus...umm, watch some movies. The Movement is the best song on this album by far and it is the only reason to have this. So instead of buying this, go and download The Movement. If in some odd way Bow Wow can comtinues to rap like he does on The Movement, he may be able to put out a tight album. I mean rapping about the young girls is gonna get old unless he wants to take the approach of R.Ke...Nope I wont say that, because I like Kels. I only recommend this to 16 year old girls who want to heard Bow Wow rap over and over again, because they think they have a chance at landing a date with him. Otherwise, steer clear of this garbage, please.  
 
Since Lil Bow Wow can rhyme, let me give it a shot.  
 
Leash him back up, and put the muzzle on his mouth/  
Because this young boy belongs in the dog house  
 
How was that y'all?  
 
Top 3 Songs:  
1.The Movement  
2.To My Mama (feat. Amerie)  
3.I Can't Lose  
 
Like This? Well You'll love this garbage:  
Lil J- Back to J  
