The Demigodz; first of all, what exactly is a Demigod? According to Webster himself, he states that a Demigod is ‘a person who is partly divine’. If that is really the case, then this group of 10+ MCs must be hiding their latent skills until the LP drops. Just from me perceiving through 7 tracks, I have yet to unveil any ‘divine’ qualities from any of these musicians. Unfortunately, these MCs are too obsessed with their little punchlines and battling skills, and therefore throwing away every other component that is integral in making a good and complete album. So, unless if the producer of your group is named Stoupe, Primo, 4th Disciple, or Rza, an EP full of battle verses is what would be called skating on thin ice. The producer of Demigodz Entertainment happens to be Apathy (the guy who first appeared on that Jedi Mind Tricks album), and although his production is dogged and elaborate, it’s nowhere near “Godlike”.  
 
 
The two MCs that make themselves known right off the bat is Apathy and Celph Titled. Apathy is brash, candor, and just plain mean when it comes to spitting lyrics. Celph Titled has the voice of a mean cartoon character and can land more than a few clever punchlines. These two compliments each other on the first track “Science of the Bumrush”, and flexes their tongue muscles by throwing up some heavy punchlines:  
 
In fact the same fist that I hit you up with  
Was found inside your b*tch’s clitor*s after sucked my d*ck  
 
You’re just a g*y rapper, loving what them f*gs do  
You ain’t had pu*sy since pu*sy had you  
 
Get outta line and I’ll draw you a chalk outline  
I heard you did a track with Puff Daddy and got outshined  
 
 
 
Esoteric actually does a favor this time by showing up on “Captivate/Deactivate”. The chopped up string samples are just insane, along with a colorful hook done by using samples from Big Pun to Raekwon. I especially liked it when Apathy playfully provoked Esoteric by asking ‘Yo Eso, tell’em why you bringing the pain son?’, then Eso responded with ‘it’s probably getting done as we speak like Jenna Jameson.’ Apathy also brought the pain himself with one of the best punchlines I have ever heard: “You think you can battle me and win? Next plan/ Cuz there’s a better chance of Eminem joining X-Clan!”  
 
 
The pages in the Demigodz’ rhyme book were probably invaded by the pens of Apathy and Celph Titled, leaving very little lines and spaces for the 11 other members. To experience the official Demigod sound, just skip to the final song on here as all of the MCs show up and boasts their skills. You should get a rise after hearing MC Rise as he delivered a unique verse:  
 
 
The crowd is out for ya set, they ain’t respect  
They ain’t happy you wrecked, they happy you left  
They mad upset, pis*ed that they for your rhyming  
They barely survived your set, families hugging and crying  
Don’t come back, the rap competition’s getting hurt up  
Beat within an inch of your life, then beat you one inch further  
 
 
Parental Discretion is definitely advised. The rest of what this EP had to offer wasn’t very different from what I had reviewed, with the exception of “You Don’t Wanna Go There”, which had the best beat (Latin guitar riffs and an ill sample) on the album. My experiment with this EP wasn’t very fond, believe it or not, it actually left me fazed. Sure it had a few good songs with superman Apathy behind the boards and Celph Titled slashing his tongue of steel. However they need to do A LOT more than just a few good beats and a few decent punchlines if they ever want to be the real Demigodz of the music industry. 
