Ok.. so lemme break it down for ya. Cash Money Millionaires came along many years ago, but weren't recognized until 1998 when they had a huge empire of hit-making south rappers with no talent, but catchy songs. The main acts in Cash Money were Juvenile, Lil Wayne, Turk, and B.G., known as the Hot Boys. However, in 2001, they all made the smartest moves in their careers, and walked out on Cash Money Records, excluding Lil Wayne, who remained. The others complained about not recieving their neccessary money from album sales, and walked out. The Cash Money empire was all but destroyed as they released mediocre record in which even commercial fans were shunning. The underground fans cheered as the downfall of one of hip hop's horrible empires was destroyed worse than Rome. These guys gave Hip Hop a bad name, and it was only a matter of time before they fell. Unfortunately, this was not the case. The CEO of the company, Brian Williams, a.k.a. Baby... the #1 Stunna, decided to become a rapper and go solo. Hed been rapping as part of the duo of the Big Tymers, but this time has decided to rest the company's fate on his shoulders, and release Birdman in 2003. The album sucks, but it sold... everybody likes it.. and i feel like quitting rap and becoming a sniper now just to end Baby's life...  
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Bird Lady Talkin' (Intro) (NOT RATED)  
2. Looks Like a Job 4... (0 Stars)  
3. Fly in Any Weather f/ Jazze Pha (0 Stars)  
4. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 1 (NOT RATED)  
5. Ms. Bird f/ Mannie Fresh (0 Stars)  
6. I Got To f/ Lil Wayne (0 Stars)  
7. Never Had Nothin' (0 Stars)  
8. Baby You Can Do It f/ Toni Braxton (0 Stars)  
9. Ms. Bird Live from Superdome (NOT RATED)  
10. What Happened to That Boy f/ The Clipse & Pharrell Williams (1 Star)  
11. On the Rocks f/ Stone, 'Lac, Jazze Pha (0 Stars)  
12. How It Be f/ Jermaine Dupri, TQ (0 Stars)  
13. Heads Up f/ The D Boys (0 Stars)  
14. Hustlas, Pimps and Thugs (0 Stars)  
15. Fly Away (0 Stars)  
16. Say It Ain't So f/ Boo & Gotti, Keith Murray, Mikkey (0 Stars)  
17. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 3 (NOT RATED)  
18. Do That.... f/ Mannie Fresh & P. Diddy (0 Stars)  
19. Ice Cold f/ Jazze Pha, TQ (0 Stars)  
20. Ms. Bird Pageant, Pt. 4 (NOT RATED)  
21. Ghetto Life f/ Lil' Wayne, Cam'Ron (0 Stars)  
22. Keeps Spinnin f/ Petey Pablo (0 Stars)  
 
 
The production on this album is led by two main producers: Mannie Fresh and newly signed Jazze Pha. Both individuals have something in common: they are both ridiculously out of shape, and they both have no skill. Both have the same style of production as well, typically synthesized club beats and jazzy instrumentals. Using fast cellos and guitars, mixed with thumping basslines, it sounds good, but its horribly orchestrated. At times, its so loud that its unlistenable. The other producers on here are Jermaine Dupri, P. Diddy, Timbaland, and The Neptunes, which all suck. The production isnt as annoying as the lyricism, because as most of you know, commercial rappers, specially those in Cash Money, have absolutely no talent, or taste.  
 
Baby proves time and time again that he has an extreme lack of charisma, though he tries his best, and lack of talent. Even with a plethora of guest appearances and useless skits, Baby proves that there is still no way for him to put together a solid album. He is extremely unintelligent, uncreative, cliche, and frankly, extremely BORING. I almost fell asleep listening to this album at how bad it is. Not to mention he relies on his ridiculous birdcall. It makes me laugh that he goes on TV and thinks hes cool, when hes making himself look like a complete idiot with his wobbly movements and his attempt to dance makes him look like a piece of 80 year old jello after its been hit with a fork. The dude looks 80 too, did i mention that? Musically, Birdman has NOTHING to offer whatsoever. The sad thing is, this album has NO LISTENABLE material at all. None. Zero. Zip. Nada.  
 
The lead single from this album is the supposed "catchy" club song "Do That". We hear the words "This is a Cash Money / Bad Boy... Collaboration", to me, its the equivalent of hearing This is a Saddam Hussein / Osama Bin Laden Collaboration, two completely evil entities combining to give us a complete trash of a record, which makes me want to shoot the television. Sad thing is, these guys think they are "cool", and they are making complete fools out of themselves. Im 100% sure that if they weren't rich, women wouldn't even look at them. I mean, asking my girlfriend Rocio, she even agreed 100% that those guys are hideous inside and out, and its not even about looks, they are complete a**holes due to their love of money and p*ssy, which is why only greedy sluts hang out with them... makes sense doesnt it?  
 
I was recently driving along my neighborhood when i hear a young latino boy, about 13 years old, with two of his friends, doing a very gay birdcall and yelling "What happened to dat Boy". At this point, one word instantly entered my mind: "Driveby". Of course, then i remembered that i cant go to jail again, so i proceeded driving, gritting my teeth in anger and going at about 50 in a residential area. My love for hip hop is truly strong. Of course, they were singing the ridiculously stupid "What happened to that Boy". On here, Baby brings in former-underground sell-outs The Clipse to help Baby try to rap. Baby gives us a ridiculously mediocre verse, while the Clipse raps crap also, but they admittedly have a few clever punchlines. Typical rags to riches story which is ruined by Baby's ridiculously materialistic verse. Funny that on both the singles from his videos, you see him prancing around and wiggling his hands like a little girl, in which i really think that Baby is a f*ckin f*ggot.  
 
But of course, the materialism conquers this entire album. I swear to god you hear f*ckin Baby rapping about his cars, jewelry, money, and girls over and over again sooooo much that it drives you to shoot yourself literally. Baby brags about his amazing status and i guarantee you that if he comes around to my neighborhood, i will personally kick his a**, steal all his jewelry, even his teeth, and pawn the sh*t. And yes, i promise i will.... swear on my life, hed better be armed. On tracks like "How it Be", "Baby You Can Do It", "Keeps Spinnin", "On the Rocks" and "I Got To", Baby stresses all of the material possessions he has, and yet hes still single... how about that.... news flash bro... they DO NOT Like you for you're personality and looks.... bro... its for you're money. But of course, he knows that... he KNOWS IT. I Pray to god that some day he gets poor so he can be as miserable as we poor folks are.  
 
As usual for these pop-rappers, they have to try their best to tie to the streets and be thuggish, but of course they fail miserably. On "Ghetto Life", "Never Had Nothin", and "Heads Up". With their horrible, mono-syllablistic, nonsensical trash lyricism and jazzy production, each of these songs mirror each other with horrible subject matter about killing and murder, and all that gay ridiculous crap which just happens to sell records to the idiotic public. Besides the fact that Baby has absolutely no skill as a lyricist, his delivery is always off-point and he f*cks up every single line he spits. His meaningless and uninspired attempt to be introspective sucks, as im very very sure that he manufactured his childhood just to be equal to other rappers... meaning he "sold drugs" and was a "thug", which i find hard to believe just like looking into his fat nasty face. Its easy to tell a liar sometimes, this guy would break a polygraph faster than id break his CD. To me, this is sooo unlistenable, its a miracle that it sells, and frankly IT P*SSES ME OFF!!!!! Everything on this album is horrible... terrible... unlistenable... what else can i say?  
 
The amazing thing is that there is one competent lyricist here. On "Say it aint so", Keith Murray raps. He is a good lyricist, but his appearance on this album befuddles me. Not to mention that the particular verse he spits is horribly materialistic and whack. Keith Murray is a great rapper, but he has no place on this album whatsoever... Say it aint so Keith... Say it aint so....  
 
Is this album complete trash? OH YEAH! Is it worth burning in fire? OH YEAH! Is Birdman possibly the worst individual to even come close to a mic? OH YEAH! Does this man deserve absolutely no money from us whatsoever? OH YEAH! Is this quite possibly the worst album in the history of music? OH YEAH! Is Birdman a f*ckin queer? OH YEAH! Do i wanna kick his a**? OH YEAH! Does he deserve to be stripped of his riches and live his life as a janitor? OH YEAH! Does he deserve to be spit on? OH YEAH!  
 
Nuff Said...  
 
0 Stars  
 
 
I have my own personal message towards Cash Money. Lets say you're on the internet, and you read this review, i personally challenge each and every single one of you a**holes to a battle and watch me rip you down to pieces one by one... come on... BRING IT!!!! Of course they aren't gonna respond, because as ive stated before, "The Industry Fears Big D".  
 
 
 
This is a part of Awoolcott's "I Can't Believe What People Think About This!" Write-Off.. Here is a shoutout to the other participants. Sorry for being a Day Early Bro... but i might not be online tommorow...  
