If you are looking for generic, rip-off rap for the holidae season then look no further than Chingy's Jackpot. Filled with senseless raps in an Steve Erkel meets Nelly cross pollinated by Snoop Dogg fashion, Chingy comes off sounding completely inane and pointless. His grating vocals are like nails on a chalkboard and even guest stars by real rappers (Snoop Dogg, Murphy Lee) don't keep this jackpot from going broke.  
 
Breakout single "Right Thurr" is supposed to be a party song for the ladies to shake their $ss to. That's all well and good until the vocals come in and ruin the beat and decent production. The remix is possibly just a little bit better with the addition of Trina. She provides some needed relief for Chingy audio assault. The follow up single "Holidae In" has a great beat and production and when Ludacris and Snoop Dogg check into the hotel I literally feel like kissing their feet in gratitude. So this song is probably the best song on the album.  
 
"Wurrs My Cash" just plain out sucks with its almost 80's production, stupid lyrics and redundant hook (I use the term hook very loosely). It's a weak attempt to have the charisma of Snoop Dogg but it comes off once again like Erkel just stepped into the hood.  
 
"Bagg Up" is almost palatable with its slight funky groove that is more fun than some of the other tracks. He actually establishes a flow that isn't hindered by cutesy word mangling. It still is pretty stagnant but at least it doesn't make me think that Chinese water torture is preferable.  
 
"One Call Away" has a promising intro with its R&B feel but once again it deteriorates into bad reception once Chingy opens his mouth. I was hopeful I would like at least one another song but I don't think that is going to happen my friends. I do have to give it props for being the only track on the album that isn't mispelled.  
 
Other tracks which could be describe in a creative variation of the last couple of descriptions include  
"He's Herre" which rips off Kelly Rowlands "Can't Nobody", "Madd @ Me" which is dedicated to the fans that bought the album, "Represent" (with co-rapper Tity-Boi. I guess mispelled we aren't supposed to know what that means)the unbelievably dingy "Juice" (which encourages the listeners to endulge in some freshly sqeezed hos, "Gettin' It" (which makes anything by Bow Wow look mature, Chingy Jackpot and finally the eloquently titled Fu*k "Dat N*gga".  
 
I could sit here and give you a track by track acount of this album and if you give me helpful's then I guess I will. But in order to write about real music I would rather just cut to the chase. If this is the jackpot then remind me to stay far away from scratch tickets and casino's. I would rather sit here and languish in poverty...a poverty of sound.  
