Reviewing a CD is going to be really difficult for me. I don't even know here to start! So, instead of categorizing like usual, I'll probably just type out paragraphs and how it is somewhat organized. =(  
 
So, wondering about the title eh? You know those songs you always hear on the radio, that sound spectacular and a couple of other songs by the same singer gets popular? I'll assume you do, and I'll also assume you go out to buy the CD expecting the same quality o f songs, only to be highly disappointed.  
 
This is the exact same case here, as it is with Confessions of Fire. IMO, Cam'Ron has become legendary to this. He has one or two amazingly popular songs, then the rest of the CD sucks.  
 
The hit song in Confessions of Fire was "Horse & Carriage" featuring Ma$e. Of course, back then there was no Napster, KaZaa or Morpheus, and that was just a few years ago. Amazing how much the internet has changed music. The hit in Come Home With Me is "Hey Ma", a mellow rap song with awesome lyrics. So, I bought the song on iTunes Music Store, and I love it. It is my second highest played song, only behind "Don't Stop Til' You Get Enough", by Michael Jackson.  
 
I bought the CD because I have always like Cam'Ron's style. After the death of Tupac and B.I.G., the sellout of P. Diddy, and the retirement of Jay Z, I crave for good ol' rap. I am talking about the Gangsta rap of the early 90's, as opposed to the crap Nelly, Eminem and 50 Cent sh!t out. I mean the crap aimed towards fourteen year olds. Back in the early 90s, if an underaged kid played rap, like "Hit Em Up", they would inadvertently pee their pants because of the feeling in the lyrics.  
 
Now that has all changed.  
 
So, aware of Cam'Ron's new CD, and impressed by his single, "Hey Ma", I bought the whole CD at iTunes Music Store for around $10.00US.  
 
Luckily I did not pay full retail price, which would have probably been $15. The CD SUCKED. Besides "Hey Ma" which I have two copies of, and "Oh Boy", the rest of the CD is poor music with just as bad lyrics. (No offense Cam'Ron, I'm still a big fan!)  
 
Cons  
This is another example of why people "share" music. You put a couple of good songs on the CD, and the rest sounds like it was there to fill the void.  
 
The lyrics suck, and the beat is in no way catchy. Try singing along to "Come Home with Me". You can't! No rhythmic style. Nothing you can feel out of the song!  
 
Out of the fifteen tracks on the CD, their are two that I play.  
 
The lyrics aren't smooth, and the beat isn't catchy. That is basically the bottom line. Not much detail can be given besides the fact that the CD sucks for those two reasons.  
 
Cam'Ron hasn't had a huge fit for a long time now. He did do a remix of "Horse & Carriage", which was okay. It seemed kind of desperate, but of course many artists do remixes. Rarely are they as good as the first. With the quality of the original song in this case, I don't think anyone expected it to be.  
 
Again, the songs sound like they were whipped together to fill up space as to make it different from a single.  
 
Pros  
 
Despite most of the downfalls, Cam'Ron is a great lyricist, especially when his songs have a great beat.  
 
Songs he has put out like "Horse & Carriage", easily puts Cam'Ron on the Top 40 Rappers of all time list.  
 
"Hey Ma", is a perfect example. With a mellow rhythm, it is perfect for night drives and stuff. Very soothing, for a rap song at least.  
 
"Hey Ma" is a perfect example of how great rap was in the 90's. For example, during the chorus they talk to each other with things like, "What's up, All right". Pure 90's.  
 
They also pass back to each other: "Got drops, got Coups, got Trucks, got juice, all right."  
 
Perfect. Absolutely perfect. You can't ask for a better song than this.  
 
Another popular song is Oh Boy, which is kind of weird but still counts as good music.  
 
Those two songs, and Cam'Ron's consistent style throughout the CD is what gives it two stars, as opposed to one. Cam'Ron has a very original and classy style that you can listen to over and over again.  
 
Conclusion  
 
Don't buy the CD, but definitely buy the song, "Hey Ma". It is well worth the 99 Cents that iTunes Music Store charges. If you don't want to download iTunes, try BuyMusic.com.  
 
"Oh Boy" isn't bad either.  
 
I really hope Cam'Ron keeps up his style and doesn't follow the "Nelly" trend. Hey, if he does, he'll always have listeners. The real rap fans will listen, and really appreciate the music. Right now, Cam'Ron IMO is one of the best living/non-retired rappers. Hopefully he keeps up the good work and style  
 
Cam'Ron's last CD was better, even though it was basically the same, "one good song" story. That one good song though, is really good.  
 
Worth ten bucks? Probably not.  
 
Worth a buck? Easily. 
