DaBrat is a girl/lady/whatever - so why doesn't she act like it? With her brazen, rough tones and word choice, she doesn't sound very ladylike to me. Not that she tries to act like a lady...Just as most other female rappers (Missy Elliott, Eve, Amil), she doesn't seem to have much originality. Nor is there much distinction between her songs. Most all of the 17 tracks sound the same.  
 
What is wrong with rap these days?  
In general, rap has lost so much of its meaning. It used to be purely lyrical genious, but nowadays, with the progression of rap merging into some pop/rock, it has totally changed. You can now hear tunes from DMX being played on pop radio stations. You can hear ODB on pop stations. Is there anything wrong with a pop station playing it? Nope. But it affects the production and composition of rap songs.  
 
The stereotype of rap used to be that hard-core gangsta rap stuff that almost no caucasian people wanted to listen to. As the years pass, it changes, and more and more white people like rap. Why? It has altered some of its style and sound to accomodate others. No offense, but white influence on "black" music isn't good.  
 
Also, lyrical genious in rap nowadays tends to go along the lines of "f*ck you" and "suck my ____." What's happened to the awesome rhymes and, well, less profane side of rap? Society has made this every-other-word-is-f*ck music into the norm. Rarely will you listen to a rap song without the colorful language in it.  
 
Back to DABRAT...  
DaBrat seems to have been using a mini-version of Webster's when she and her co-writers wrote those songs. Not only do they recycle all the same words, the lyrics have no deep meaning. Unlike many other rap artists, she seems to just be rapping for the heck of it. It's worse than Britney Spears. DaBrat also has a voice similar to Britney's - strained, throaty, and squeaky. It is very painful to listen to, at times, and her redundancy does get on my nerves.  
 
Track 1 - Intro  
The intro is so useless because it is basically celebrating the return of DaBrat. However, I'll give her a few brownie points because of the excellent rap skills showed here. She can rap so fast and clear - a great feat of skill. The tune is very boring, but it suffices. Here and there you can pick up some lyrics, but it's hard to because of the speed they rap.  
 
Track 2 - We Ready  
I never said I was ready! :) Again, the tune isn't great. In fact, it's horrible. It sounds like something Dr. Dre would use, especially if his music were like TQ or something. This music doesn't fit the lyrics or the voice. Too soft music for too harsh a voice. There is barely a tune, actully, so I take back the part of the tune not being great. Ther are 3 notes in the tune, that's it. Not much to look forward to, if you ask me. It's a bit slow for dancing, but it's not something you would grind to, either.  
 
Track 3 - What You Like featuring Tyrese.  
This is the EXACT same tune as Montell Jordan - Get it On Tonight. Why? I dunno. But the lyrics don't fit. Also, she altered the tune so that half the accompaniment sounds are missing. She and Tyrese do a bad job handling the lyrics and the presentation of the lyrics. Their voices clash so badly - she has a high, throaty, forced voice. Tyrese has a Montell-type voice - smooth, flowing, euphonious. A good voice and bad voice don't cancel each other out - they make the situation worse. The lyrics are, again, worthless. There's no point in singing this - it tells basically the same type of story the rest of the songs do - except, story isn't the word to describe it.  
 
Track 4 - At the Club  
This isn't even a song - it's like a skit. It's also 37 seconds long. This has no point - it talks about DaBrat "blowing things out of proportion" and getting mad at this guy. It's pretty boring. They basically quibble over her tendency to be incited into anger and let her temper take over.  
 
Track 5 - F*ck You  
The tune sounds like some Jamaican tin drum tune. It also sounds a bit like the Rugrats song, for some reason. The beat isn't that great - similar to the other songs. The bass line doesn't sound complete - more like little fragments pieced together. The lyrics are a bit harsh - not that her others aren't. I just am not used to hearing the female type using such abrasive words. This is no good for dancing.  
 
Track 6 - Back Up  
A song featuring Ja Rule - I hate him too! It's basically the same note in the background being repeated over and over again. JaRule says "baby" every once in a while. DaBrat's voice still sticks out a little compared to the mellower tones of the xylophone-type instrument used in the background tune. Then, the chorus has this nasal sound that makes it altogether painful to hear. Another song that isn't decent for dancing.  
 
Track 7 - Hands in da Air  
A song with Mystikal, this is horrible. The background has trumpet tunes that sound like somehing you'd here on Hawaii or Matlock. One of the old shows. However, with the modern-type sound of her voice and lyrics, the song sounds a little strange. All in all, the lyrics aren't great, because it basically has the same theme as all the other songs - NONE.  
 
Track 8 - Runnin Out of Time  
This time, DaBrat has paired up with Kelly Price. Kelly has a nice voice, a little like Toni Braxton crossed with Whitney Houston. DaBrat sounds virtually the exact opposite. This is not that great for the song because it takes attention from areas of the song that want attention, and directs the attention to the voice. Rather than focus on appreciating the song, DaBrat seems to have decided to write crapppy lyrics again, coupled with a shallow "melody."  
 
Track 9 - That's What I'm Lookin For  
If there is one, this is the prime of the CD. This song, although quite characteristic of this crapppy DaBrat style, has a decent tune, and it is great for dancing/whatever. It has a good, steady beat that is fit for moving around. I even play basketball to this song (it is on a mix). I think that the voice and tune and lyrics come together very well, as opposed to all the other songs on this CD. It doesn't clash at all - a good sign. The cuss words are still rampant, and the rhymes a bit weak, but overall, the lyrics are a little better than in other songs.  
 
Track 10 - Breeve on Em featuring 22  
This sounds like a cross between Eminem - "My Name is" and Puff DAddy - "It's all about the Benjamins." The voice and music do blend, somewhat, but I think the song just isn't what it could be. Take 22 out, and change some lyrics, and maybe you can salvage this one.  
 
Track 11 - What's On Your Mind  
Nothing is on her mind. That's why this song is absolutely horrifying, and I am too predictable, so you probably can infer what I'll tell you.  
 
Track 12 - Leave Me Alone  
another skit! It's 15 seconds long this time. It's supposed to be a phone call that I won't bother to explain - the title pretty much sums it up.  
 
Track 13 - High Come Down  
Another 80's-sounding song. Sheesh, this is getting boring. This is no goodfor dancing because it's too slow - too fastr for grinding! haha.  
The chorus doesn't fit because the person singing it has a smooth, mellow voice, but the lyrics are so coarse you'd think DaBrat can sing them herself. The only thing is - she can't sing.  
 
Track 14 - All My B*tches  
All my b_tches say that THIS SONG STINKS. She basically yells through the beginning. Then, she has about 3 other people helping her. The beat is good, the rapping is good (speed, skill...). However, the lyrics are kind of hard to catch, and when they are heard, they aren't great. The lyrics have no real point to them. This is ok for dancing.  
 
Track 15 - Pink Limonade  
The tune is barely there - another one of those 2-note melodies. This has a dull sound, but then when you hear DaBrat's voice, it makes you want to cringe. This is ok for dancing, although I wouldn't ever get up and dance to this one.  
 
Track 16 - Bishop Don Juan  
Another phone call - totally worthless. "Bishop Don Juan" is a pimp. He's basically advertising.  
 
Track 17 - Chi Town  
This song is absolutely terrible. It sounds like what you'd get if you crossed Michael Jackson with Eve. The tune sounds so retrospective - 80's or early 90's - and the lyrics are so "today" that it sounds ridiculous. Not only that, as you can see, all her songs don't have much of a theme or point to them. They don't seem to be well thought out. It seems to me like she is merely rapping just because. No reason! This song talks about Chicago "Chi Town," the city "with the best skylines" where DaBrat grew up, etc. etc. etc. We didn't really ask to hear her life story. Not only does this song have no point, it's so worthless that all it basically talks about Chicago's people doing drugs, bad things about the city, how she fits in with the people, and encourages the drug use there. Whoop-dee-doo.  
 
Final thought - this is a waste of 14.99 at a record store.  
