I first started listening to rap in the early 1990s, when members of my peer group, Kris Kross were the hottest act going. It was obvious that the 2 kids in Kris Kross had no talent whatsoever, just used as marketing objects to make rap appeal to the young crowd in America. The idea with Kris Kross was to give them a squeaky clean image, with a thugged out look and sound. Obviously when one thing real, and one thing fake collide, and you have the ultimate phasing out of this music.  
 
What does this have to do with Shyne? Absolutely nothing, that was a brief introduction to a situation that occurs in rap known as being a "studio gangsta". Studio gangstas are the lowest form of human beings in the rap game. Shyne falls into the category of studio gangsta, because he claims he was a poor kid on the streets of Brooklyn, who never sold a record in his life. Yet he has a song on his album called "That's Gangsta", quite possibly the worst rap song of all time. That's Gangsta has Shyne bsing the rap world about he is a true street thug, he's dodged the cops, and he has 100 carats in his watch. If Shyne has 100 carats in his watch, before he had a job, and he got it from street hustling, the FBI would investigate the purchase of 100 carats worth of diamonds, and Shyne would obviously be jailed for the reason that he cannot explain where his source of funds originated. Rather than go deeper into speaking of this horrible fraudulent piece of rap music, I will go on to his next song, and equally deplorable attempt to try and tell you Shyne is something he's not.  
 
Shyne first debuted on the radio with a song called Bad Boy, featuring Barrington Levy, an unknown reggae star who only existed in the underground world. Shyne too, only existed in the underground world until this album was released. His songs like Guch, Prad, on the horrible Cutmaster C underground release brought me to believe that Shyne had no future, and my instincts were correct. Bad Boy is nothing more than a sappy attempt to convince the American hip hop listening audience that Shyne is more than just a rapper, he had to earn his keep on the streets, and he is still doing so. Don't fall for it, Shyne is nothing more than a really bad actor, and a pathetic attempt to match the superior lyrical stylings, of one, Biggie Smalls.  
 
Perhaps what is considered one of the worst publicity stunts of all time, and the stupidest career move Shyne could make, Shyne was indicted for the infamous club shooting at a party, thrown by the head of Bad Boy Records, Puff Daddy. To pump the upcoming debut of Shyne's album, it was rumored that Shyne was the shooter in this party, the one that Puffy and Jennifer Lopez fled from to avoid possibly being shot at. Now, lets point out the obvious. Puffy who signs Shyne promises to make him millions because his record will be sent straight to the top through his promotions. Puff also takes Shyne in despite his ongoing fued with long time friend and partner Lil Kim. So, Shyne, the shooter? I think not, just a shameless attempt to push an album that has no reason to ever be shelved.  
 
Shyne is one of the great travesties of rap music. He has a horrible voice for the business, a look similar to that of Warren G, who hasn't been popular since the mid 90's, and is obviously just a cheap Biggie imitation. If it was up to me, his album wouldn't even go double wood, but it has sold somewhere in the area of almost reaching gold status, which is pretty pathetic. I think if people put blindfolds on and take the earplugs out, they will realize what type of garbage Shyne is delivering. I put that this is Great Music to Play While Getting ready to go out, because hearing this garbage makes you want to leave as fast as possible.  
 
