Totally Devoid of Humor Mental Hospital  
Official Intake/Evaluation Form  
 
Patient Name:Keith Thornton  
Aliases:Kool Keith, Dr. Octagon, Black Elvis, Dr. Dooom, Mr. Gerbik  
 
Previous mental health treatment: Treated at Bellvue Mental Hospital briefly, occasional follow-up visits  
 
Employment history: Rapper for hire; previous employment with the underground hip-hop group Ultramagnetic MC's, performing under the name "Kool Keith". Since then, has recorded albums for several labels. Apparent issues related to identity, having operated under several names and personalities. Employment record spotty, containing numerous periods of inactivity.  
 
Doctor's Notes: Finding Mr. Thornton deeply distracted and virtually incapable of coherent communication, I have chosen to analyze his artistic work as a manner to perhaps find some insight into his mental health issues.  
 
In commencing upon this effort, I came across his 1996 album Dr. Octagonecologyst, recorded under one of his many aliases, Dr. Octagon. Upon listening to this album, I found myself deeply disturbed; perhaps this patient may be beyond my medical skills.  
 
As the album begins, I am first disturbed by the first track, "Intro". A conversation between a patient and a doctor, this brief dialogue (apparently taken from what Mr. Thornton refers to as a "porn flick") demonstrates a disturbing preoccupation with sex, particularly in the highly unethical patient/doctor context. Initial thoughts: maintain distance between females in the facility and Mr. Thornton. Suspicion of hypersexual and/or sexually compulsive behavior. Particularly of note: the repeated, echoing cries on the track of the female patient exclaiming, "fuck my pussy, doctor!"  
 
Continuing from here, we find Mr. Thornton's delusional behavior coming through, apparently believing himself to be in the year 3000, on the aptly named track "3000". While his lyrical flow is quite competent, and the assistance of Dan "The Automator" Nakamura on production, makes for an overall quality song, it fails to hide his clear case of dementia.  
 
On "Earth People", I see that his delusions are even more intense than previously believed. Keith Thornton is apparently convinced he is, in fact, from Jupiter. He also seems to believe he is actually a doctor. While he attempts to mask his delusions with clever lyricism and more of Nakamura's production skills, combined with DJ Q-Bert of Northern California's Invisible Scratch Picklz work on the turntables, there is no doubt: Thornton is most assuredly mentally troubled.  
 
"Real Raw" seems to suggest that Thornton has an inflated sense of self, filled with declarations of his superiority over others. Additionally, it seems to indicate a perhaps sub-conscious propensity for violence hidden behind his facade. Evidence of this is further found in the track immediately preceding it, "No Awareness", which begins with an excerpt from a movie discussing cannibalism, leading into a song with a decidedly Wu-Tang Clan-like tone to it. Note to self: make sure orderlies are made aware of subject's potential for violence, and are knowledgeable in the proper use of restraints.  
 
"General Hospital" appears to be a continuing manifestation of Thornton's delusional belief he is a doctor. Showing blatant disregard for proper medical behavior, he proclaims a patient dead of chirrosis of the eye, a disease which doesn't even exist. I am increasingly troubled, curious as to what activities the patient was engaged in prior to treatment.  
 
"Blue Flowers", outside of the patient's continuing belief he is a practicing surgeon and his description of "green rain", is unusually cogent, perhaps written during a more lucid period in his disease. It is also accompanied by an impressive bit of musical creativity by the previously mentioned Nakamura and Q-Bert. I am curious as to the mental health of his cohorts working on this album...perhaps I should provide my findings to the appropriate authorities in San Francisco.  
 
"Technical Difficulties" is the most obvious example present of the "word salad" typical of most disorganized schizophrenics. With lyrical samples such as:  
 
Chewbacca's not here i'ma do it for your circumcised  
Niggaz don't realize my format is a palm spectrum  
To damage any rectum  
This is the real dinosaur funk which permitted g-funk  
To play anally through the trunk a digital master  
Was given to sam cooke and jimmy castor  
 
It's pretty apparent that the patient is far from mentally stable.  
 
Another sample from one of the patients "porn flicks", entitled "A Visit to the Gynecologyst" contains elements of female impersonation, sexually compulsive behavior, and (possibly) rape, I am beginning to question the ability to rehabilitate Mr. Thornton.  
 
Even more disturbingly, on the track "Halfsharkalligatorhalfman", Thornton now claims his is Dr. Octagon (himself)'s 208-year old ancestor, named Mr. Gerbik, a self-described "half-shark, half-man, skin like alligator. Carrying a dead walrus". I am now resigned to the fact that this case is going to take a long time.  
 
As the album closes with "1977", the patient's psychosis seems to have intensified, now believing himself to be a house party MC in the late seventies. Admittedly, Nakamura's production captures the flavor of the song. However, this only suggests further that Nakamura is clearly complicit in Thornton's delusions, and should be kept away from him if at all possible.  
 
Conclusions: In my studies of Dr. Octagonecologyst, I have been able to clearly conclude that Mr. Thornton has some severe mental issues that may take substantial work to overcome. Recommend regimen of 125 mg Seroquel daily, with dosages of Ambien as needed.  
 
Also, I highly recommend purchasing the album Dr. Ocatagonecologyst if you are a fan of underground, creative hip-hop music. Additionally, you will be helping with the treatment of a person clearly in need of mental help.  
 
Great Music to Play While: Tripping on acid and playing video games  
