Once upon a time there was a rapper named Nas. He crafted a sheer hip-hop classic, one of the best albums of all time, called Illmatic in 1994. The album didn't succeed in sales, but dropped the jaws of hip-hop heads nationwide, as they considered Nas the savior and one of the best ever. In 1996, he followed it up with It Was Written, a more mafiosio album, less riddled with Street Poetry. On that album, he brought together two of his proteges: AZ and Cormega. Both of these emcees, along with Nas himself and Foxy would go on to form The Firm, a hip-hop super-group. However, weeks after its inception, Cormega found himself kicked out the group and replaced with the slightly weaker rapper Nature. Cormega had no choice but to go out on his own. After a plethora of label problems, he felt it was hopeless, until 2001 when he released The Realness, in my opinion, a modern new-classic album. If Nas were still his friend, it would make him extremely proud...  
 
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Dramatic Entrance (4 Stars)  
2. American Beauty (5 Stars)  
3. Thun & Kicko f/ Prodigy (5 Stars)  
4. The Saga (5 Stars)  
5. R U My N*gga? (5 Stars)  
6. Unforgiven (5 Stars)  
7. Fallen Soldiers (5 Stars)  
8. Glory Days (5 Stars)  
9. Rap's A Hustle (4 Stars)  
10. Get Out My Way (5 Stars)  
11. You Don't Want It (5 Stars)  
12. 5 For 40 (4 Stars)  
13. They Forced My Hand (5 Stars)  
14. Fallen Soldiers (Remix) (5 Stars)  
*/SYM BONUS: Killaz Theme f/ Mobb Deep (5 Stars)  
 
 
 
 
"Dramatic Entrance" is a great opening track, but only food for "American Beauty", the first real classic from The Realness. Taking the age-old extended metaphor formula, started by Common on "I Used to Love H.E.R.". Cormega uses his extended metaphoric skills to compare hip-hop music to a female. Cormega sort of tells the story of hip-hop being "abused" and "raped" by the industry, specifically sell-out rappers, as he storytells the life of his fe-male, a.k.a. hip-hop. His lyrics are some of the best of his career, as well as his delivery, as he shows some amazing vocabulary, and a great flow. The beat, is a soft, synthesized guitar sound, with claps and bass stringed together perfectly. My only complaint is the shortness of the track.  
 
"Thun and Kicko" features Mobb Deep's own Prodigy, as he and Cormega trade off giving us dark, poetic street tales. The beat is a soft bass, mixed with a sort of hard banging track, giving it a murderous texture. Prodigy and Cormega paint themselves like Mobb Deep have constantly on their classics, as street demons and prophets, as well as graphic storytellers and narratives. They also touch on the street-wise topic of loyalty, which is discussed more thoughroughly on "R U My N*gga". The beat, though saddening and melancholy, is beautifully put together, with a gripping, almost-mafiosio-styled cello snare, with a background whistle, and some perfectly synthesized bass. This beat would be perfect for a mafia movie, but the lyrics are a bit far-fetched from that. Cormega goes way back to his childhood, moving up into his teen years, questioning the true factors of loyalty and honor in life. The perfect beat and amazing lyrics, mixed together with unique and creative subject matter fuel this into being a Cormega Classic.  
 
"Fallen Soldiers" is a touchy, very creative track where Cormega sort of prays at night time, talking to his very close friends who passed away due to the streets. The emotional lyrics are as detailed as it gets, giving us storytellings of the particular deaths of his friends, and how it happened. One interesting lyric pays homage to Killa Black and Ill Will, whom Nas and Mobb Deep constantly grieve. Im guessing that the ties in Queensbridge are very strong. The beat is melancholy and deep, with a mixture of low-bass and keyboard, and some high synthesizer sounds. This is an extremely honest track, and he never wastes a lyric on this entire track, which makes it another one of my personal favorites.  
 
"Glory Days" is yet another saddening look into the mind of Cormega, as he makes himself one of the true masters of street poetry. On this track, Cormega gives us a flashback of his childhood and youth as we get retrospective storytelling about his childhood, which he loved, yet hated due to his involvement in the streets. This track is perfect for a nice underground single, and 'Mega's lyrics are SO well-written, thoughtful, and descriptive, than i can actually visualize everything he was talking about, and you KNOW if a song makes you do that, its a classic. The lyrics are a testament to the production, which is a beautiful medley of violins, bass, some guitar, and piano. "Rap's a Huscle" is strikingly similar, only on this track, Cormega fast-forwards to more recent events, as Cormega uses his extended metaphor skills once again, comparing hip-hop to huscling and pimping on the streets. He claims rap music is commited to him, and how much he loves H.E.R.. His metaphors are perfect, and the R&B sounding production is nothing but pure magic to the ears.  
 
Of course, as you may guess, Cormega lays down some verbal attacks towards his enemies on The Realness, namely his former teacher Nasir Jones, aka Nas. On "Get out of my Way" and "You Don't Want it", Cormega attacks Nas with his lyrics. The first of the two is a mix of battle rhymes, and old school braggadiocio, with well-written lyrics and a multi-syllable flow. The beat features an amazing assortment of classical elements, like violins, trumpets, and hard bass and drums, giving it an epic feel. The second track is much more straight-forward as we actually hear the N-A-S being called out. Firstly, the track's beat is a sombre, saddening piano beat, with a light, old school drum / snare. Secondly, Cormega annihilates Nas lyrically. The complex, multi-syllabalistic, vocabulary, and amazing punchlines and threats. Cormega gets intelligent, as he makes some very good points about Nas' career and the fact that it is loaded with hypocrisy.  
 
"5 for 40" is an accapella freestyle, very well spat and deserving of 4 stars. "They Forced My Hand" closes out The Realness (besides the remix). Ironically, this is my favorite song on the entire album. The beat is epic and loud, with some haunting and beautiful R&B background vocals, a beautiful piano loop, violins, hard bass, and drums. Cormega solidifies his spot as one of the illest poets and emcees in history, giving us an introspective view of the streets, its darkness, but begs for hope, and thinks it may happen. No doubt, beautiful. By fast forwarding the "Fallen Soldiers Remix" you get to a hidden track "Killaz Theme II", in which Mobb Deep drops by to give us haunting street narratives. This is a hauntingly evil, yet perfect way to end The Realness.  
 
The Realness could possibly be the best album of 2001, in fact, it is, and one of the greatest of all time. Its deep street poetry, melancholy and perfect production, and lyrics and it should be purchased by all true hip-hop fans. Cormega hasn't just left from Nas' shadow, hes basically jumped out like a video game character with this album. Is it the modern day Illmatic? Possibly, in fact, very likely; Is it a Classic? Yes, Will it make me dance? F*ck No; Will it make me think? F*ck Yes; Are the beats good? Yes; Should i buy it? VERY Stupid Question....  
 
5 Stars  
