while i usually don't convince myself to just BUY cd's because it's a sophomore effort, fabolous was a little different. his first album was something that maybe one friend bought and we ALL listened to it indifferently. in other words, it didn't have the same power as LINKIN PARK'S debut (i couldn't stop listening to HYBRID THEORY).  
 
then between albums 1 and 2, fabolous made some great songs that never were really released. one of my favorites is a song called "just don't stop", featuring a great beat and interesting flows. as i listened to online stuff from dj clue's mixtapes, i gained a better appreciation for his music.  
 
well, as STREET DREAMS came out, i felt the sudden urge to buy it and pop in. this is what i think over a month after buying it:  
 
2. not give a f***: it's just one of those songs that you say would be great if it just had a different beat. i mean his lyrics have some humor to them. one of my favorite lines goes along the lines of "i'm here to take away your meal, almost like it's RAMADAN".  
3. damn: this is the song you listen to one the way to a party or club, or anywhere that's high energy. the beat feels goofy to me, but i still like the song as a whole. i think it's one of the top songs, of course if it wasn't made into a single.  
4. call me: another top song (which i hope doesn't turn into a single) along with #3. great song reflecting FAB's average day. unlike 50 CENT singing his own chorus(es) in his cd GET RICH OR DIE TRYIN', FAB smartly chose to have girls sing the chorus with bits of FAB himself talking. definitely a smart move by "THE KID".  
5. can't let you go: a reunion with "SUPERWOMAN" singer LIL' MO, and i'd describe this song as one of the best recent hip hop "love songs" (i use love loosely on this one). when you listen closely, it's about that girl that's his "other girl" besides his wifey. "cuz the entree ain't as good without somethin on the side" is one of those lines that i'm just gonna remember no matter what.  
6. bad b****: a cool song, but i wouldn't use it for anything more than a party dance song. it's one of those times that the songs really don't apply to most of the world . "i got a bad b**** on my left side, bad b**** on my right side"... come on FAB, that's what i call a "street dream"!  
7. why wouldn't i: for some reason, i'd have to say i wish FAB would've dumped this song's beat for something better. actually, i wish the whole song was dumped. enough said.  
8. up on things: featuring snoop dogg. fab uses a little bit of west coast flavor, almost making it a continuation of dr. dre's "still d.r.e.". great cruising song, not really a party song.  
9. sickalicious: as much as i like missy on her OWN songs, she doesn't really sound right on this song. i think the lyrics are tight, but the beat needed to be something COMPLETELY different.  
10. this is my party: his first single, no review required!  
11. into you: great use of ashanti, as she makes #4 CALL ME sound better and sweeter. i guess this could be the next good hip hop love song. one of my favorites, as FAB slows down and makes one girl the object of the song as opposed to street dreaming about the all night sex parties.  
12. change you or change me: for some reason, i really DON'T like this song. i don't know why, but i think it's just too slow of a beat underneath funky flows.  
15. never duplicated: a cool lil song to bump in the ride or a party, has a bit of neptunes sounds in it, which always makes songs better. i think if anyone says his flows are better on this album, a lot of it is on this song.  
17. my life: a classic 90's sounding song featuring mary j. blige on the ENTIRE chorus. sounds like j. lo's "all i have" song, but more "hip hop-ified". i wish this song DOESN'T get released, because i think it would get worn out pretty quickly.  
 
there are some more songs on this album, but i think i well represented most of the good (and some bad) songs. FAB has much improved his flows, quit spelling his name (as mentioned in a scene of his TRADE IT ALL 2 video), and didn't make the whole album a series of guest spots. it could've been made a lil better, but so can everything. hope this review was helpful!  
