Styles of Beyond is taking the idea of west coast rap and hip hop in general and giving it a 180 degree whirl. Formed by Los Angeles MCs Ryu and Takbir, this group is one of the most forward moving, futuristic sounding hip hop acts around. With ample skills from both emcees and backed by some of the most prolific dj's and producers of the underground, their unique take on hip hop is one to pay attention to. While the duo doesn't undertake anything as pretentious as rapping off and then back on beat or creating an unlisteneable, extremely busy production backing like that of the Def Jux label (sorry ethompson3,) the sparse RZA like beats and futuristic lyrical subject matter creates images of flying cars and lunar colonization.  
 
Formed in 1995 at a community college in L.A. where the duo met each other during break, the two formed an instant bond and respect for each others skills. After working hard in the underground mix show scene, the two released the video game inspired track, Killer Instinct, in 1997 and gained immediate respect and accolades from the underground. In order to quench the thirst of hip hop fans, they released 2000 Fold in 1998 to a receptive crowd. Using techno-like, futuristic soundscapes and skilled turntablism, the duo sounded like Jedi Mind Tricks on LSD. After a long 5 years, SOB released their new album, Megadef, with a parody cover of Metallica's design.  
 
Favorite Tracks  
 
2. Styles of Beyond performed by Styles of Beyond / DJ Rhettmatic - 4:50  
3. Hollograms performed by Styles of Beyond / Space Boy Boogie X - 3:49  
4. Dangerous Minds - 2:47  
5. Spies Like Us performed by Styles of Beyond / Emcee 007 - 3:38  
6. Winnetka Exit - 4:13  
10. Survival Tactics - 3:38  
 
Worst Tracks  
 
There are a couple filler tracks, but even those are entertaining in and of themselves.  
 
On To the Review  
 
The Intro is a live track displaying Styles Of Beyond and their collection of scratch tracks. Nice intro, but ultimately it gets skipped.  
 
The album gets kick started with the title track, Styles of Beyond or Style Warz. The production is heavily infuenced by RZA with a repetitive, wobbly bass line and some piano keys looped over and over. However, this is an extremely entertaining track, aided by incredible turntablism and vocal echo samples. The lyrics deal with the ceremonial progression of Styles of Beyond and their pioneering efforts within the underground. Lyrical imagery is what these two do best, and this track fully emphasizes this concept. Great track, but better ones up ahead!  
 
With an eerie, piano loop and liquid dripping along with an incredible, drum and bass like bass-line, Hollograms remains my favorite track on the entire album. Sampling Pharoahe Monch between verses, the duo continue with more futuristic imagery and the two emcees display their lyrical dominance of the mic. To me, the lyrics are like Canibus' scientific braggadocio aspects but with a blend of imagined millenial forecasting (if that makes any sense.) Example:  
 
Occupants in my space, bring it on, try to harm me  
I grab a gun and start to unload like Finnish laundry  
Terminology rips, like full clips through {bullsh*t}  
Funk flips off the tongue, Ryu's on some pool {sh*t}  
Bellyflops and whatnot, low audio sonar  
Tractor beams pullin all dreams into the polar  
Symetic solar systematically scramble thoughts  
like eggs on Sunday morning, OJ and acid drops  
Randomly rippin spots, spittin dope like freebasin'  
like an open invitation to come and kick it with Satan yo  
 
Now thats what I call imagination...  
 
Dangerous Minds continues the insane trend of perfection. With a heavy breathing of a dying creature in the background as well as an eerie flute loop a la Apocalypse Now, the track is set up for some apocalyptic, futuristic lyrics. The creativity that is displayed is grandiose as usual, tying in some braggadocio with the movie Dangerous Minds, the two emcees rip it:  
 
Actin like a G, but your name ain't Julio  
Messin with my Dangerous Mind like you was Coolio  
Michelle Pfeiffer, I keep it hyper like a sniper  
Buckin in plain view, my fangs bare like a viper  
Step into my cypher son and get tagged  
around the toe MC RahRah now you John Doe  
 
I had to include that one. ;)  
 
Spies Like Us is an extremely entertaining concept. Essentially, the two plot the spying on hip hop, eventually setting their goal as capturing and taking it over. The track production is not as immediately engaging as previous tracks, but the genius is still there, with incredible wood flutes looping during the choruses. Overall, this remains one of the best tracks on the album, without the added help of guests or scratching, two of the main strengths of the album as a whole.  
 
Winnetka Exit's resemblance to RZA and his patented, early Wu-Tang hooks is uncanny. WIth a sparse beat composed of repeating guitars and a vocal sample, the track is minimalist in that RZA kind of way. A symphonic sample is also included, engaging the listener ever more into the Styles of Beyond world. The two emcee's rep where they are from; the Valley in Los Angeles. However, the lyrics aren't as incredible as the earlier tracks because of their more straight forward approach. Some might like it, others, including me, do not like it as much.  
 
After these 5 excellent tracks, the album starts dragging a bit. Muuvon engages the listener in a "head nodding" way, although the lyrics are second nature to the beat, which is a mish mash of speedy bass-heavy track-work. After listening to it for a while, the listener gets sort of a headache. This is one of the few track that the listener can skip. Besides the decent, loopy production, Easy Back It Up is more lyrical filler about women and live shows. Nothing misogynistic, but yet, just as dissatisfying.  
 
However, Survival Tactics more than picks up the slack with an excellent track, both lyrically and production wise. With a surfer guitar strumming and marracas and wood block in the background, the track just screams "creativity." The lyrics are on point, using futuristic war storytelling as a metaphor for their live shows. Excellent track, once again.  
 
Gollaxwelcome takes the space/galaxy concept even further. The two emcee's invite aliens to land on Earth and to display themselves to the world. While a little bit loony, the production incorporates another futuristic Wu-Tang like loop and some cowbell along with a stuttered bass-line. The gravelly, lo-fi characteristic of the production lends itself well to the continuity of the album as a whole.  
 
Killer Instinct, their first single, as well as Marco Polo end the album on a positive note, with great production as usual and lyrics that are on point. This is a classic album, with a bit of dragging in the middle, but nothing to detract from the skill and creativity displayed by both Ryu and Takbir. Hurray for another great album!  
