Nia, meaning purpose, is one of the seven principles of Kwanzaa. It is defined as making our collective vocation the building of our community to restore our people to their traditional greatness.  
 
This is the principle upon which Blackalicous members Chief Xcel and Gift of Gab built Nia, a masterpiece highlighting the fusion of soul, jazz, poetry, and hip-hop, while still maintaining a dedication to positivity which is lacking in so much of today’s music.  
 
 
Track Listing:  
 
1) Searching  
2) The Fabulous One  
3) Do This My Way  
4) Deception  
5) A to G  
6) Cliff Hanger  
7) Shallow Days  
8) Ego Trip by Nikki Giovanni  
9) You Didn’t Know That Though  
10) If I May  
11) Dream Seasons  
12) Trouble (Eve of Destruction)  
13) Smithzonian Institute of Rhyme  
14) As the World Turns  
15) Reanimation  
16) Beyonder  
17) Making Progress  
18) Sleep  
19) Finding  
 
 
 
The third track "Do This My Way" features Lyrics Born of Latyrx, another group on their label, Quannum Projects. Over a basic drum & bass track, the artists freestyle and free-associate using different pitches, rhythms, and syncopation. It’s tight to listen to how many different ways the artists can interact with the track. Lyrics Born raps:  
 
"I’d be the first ever Asian astronaut/  
Blastin’ off/  
Castin’ off/  
The ties that bind like a smashed guitar/  
Rode a Mastodon/  
Out Jurassic Park/"  
 
 
The fourth track "Deception" tells the fictional tale of an aspiring hip-hop artist whose immediate success causes him to lose perspective, and as a result, leads to his downfall. To reinforce the theme, the group recites "Don’t let money change you" as the hook. Xcel and Gift of Gab use a deep bass as the foundation of the song with piano accompanying the bass. Verse two goes:  
 
"His first single was an overnight success hit/  
Now he went from wearing rags to the best fits/  
All his new acquaintances/  
Gassed his head/  
Takin’ it/  
To the point where he lost all his perspective/  
Started cuttin’ on the people he came up with/  
Ego blown like his soul had been abducted/  
Though his heart was once real/  
Now material/  
Has filled/  
Up his world and he couldn’t get enough of it/  
Used to want to be the best of the rap gods/  
Now his only one concern is going platinum/  
And his skill has since decreased/  
And the inner hunger ceased/  
Now content just as long as fame and cash come/  
He’s a big Willie now rappin’ ‘bout cars/  
Thousand dollar shopping sprees, hangin’ out with stars/  
I mean, just a year ago he was broke, bumming money,  
Drinking out the 40-bottle, living outdoors/"  
 
 
"A to G" was obviously designed to display Gift of Gab’s lyrical precision. In this song, a sample is played which announces a letter of the alphabet, from the letter A to G. Then the rapper freestyles several bars using that letter, and manages to make a point and rhyme, despite the limits of alliteration. It’s great to listen to a true MC go to work.  
 
 
"Cliff Hanger" is a throwback to the days of classic hip-hop, when MCs didn’t have to take themselves so seriously. The song reminds me of Special Ed’s "I’m on a Mission" and other songs along that vein, where the rapper takes on the role of a protagonist in some fantasy/espionage/sci-fi tale. In this one, Gift of Gab becomes "The Chosen One", a warrior who was chosen to wield a mystical sword and vanquish evil from some foreign land. The beat is very catchy and the lyrics are so descriptive that the listener can almost see the tale unfold.  
 
 
In my opinion, poetry has a natural place on a hip-hop album. Rap’s lyrical delivery follows poetic form, so the two often work very well together. Lyricist Lounge Vol. 1, Black Star, and Killah Priest all had great works of poetry on their albums, and Nia does as well. On Ego Trip by Nikki Giovanni, Blackalicious takes a recitation of Nikki Giovanni’s poem and sets it over a laid back drum & bass hook. The words flow effortlessly over the beat for a very pleasing effect.  
 
 
I feel like I could go on forever with this review, so instead I’ll trim it back a little. "Shallow Days" soulfully relays the message of the need for positivity in hip-hop music and culture. Poignant observations of life are shown in "As the World Turns". Classic battle raps permeate "Trouble (Eve of Destruction)" All these and many other songs contribute to one of the most original rap albums I have ever heard.  
 
 
I honestly cannot find anything negative to say about Blackalicious’ Nia, except that there should be a lot more albums out there like it. Give this one a listen, you will not be disappointed.  
