Louis Logic has only been around for a short time. He has released two CD-ROM’s, “Music to Drink By: A Collection of Loosies and Exclusives” and “Debacle in a Bottle: a not album”, two excellent releases that basically compile the whole of his discography in two goes, mainly composed of 12” singles, bootlegs, unreleased tracks and exclusives. The title “Sin-A-Matic” is itself a play on “cinematic” – in short Louis Logic decided to present the various “sins” he likes to indulge in, in a various number of creative and cinematic ways. It’s an intriguing idea on paper, but concepts are only worthy if you make them work...  
 
Ironically, the opening cuts of "Sin-A-Matic" are typical of many modern rap albums - something that's perhaps confusing at first. Louis Logic comes out swinging in his opening bars from the Sintro; "My CD is diseased, please be cautious |Cause each queasy chorus will leave ya nauseous | Each verse is equipped with evil forces | For teachin' your kids how to be remorseless". It's a short freestyle introducing his album - a typical rap album feature - and it gives you a good idea of his skill as an emcee (check the multi's). Louis then couples his braggadocio with blunt thoughts on the state of the rap game in the magnificent “Street Smarts”: “Whatcha think cause ya neck and ya wrist go bling | That ya sh!t don't stink? Fa**ot asses doin' the Sisqo thing in a thong | Y'all ain't never had a inkling of thinkin' of bringin' it on | Take my advice shorty | Before I make your life story the sad sh*t R&B bit*hes sing in a song”. This is one of the angriest songs on the album but most importantly it demonstrates his ridiculous flow and hard-hitting wordplay, coupled with a distinctive voice. Add the standout guest collaboration with Demigodz member Celph Titled on the fake emcee dismantling "Diablos" and the opening of the album is lyrically potent, if not all too disimilar from many others.  
 
But in an industry crammed full of imitation after imitation, Louis Logic does stand out. The conceptual inventiveness that is found throughout "Sin-A-Matic" is unique. Take “Freak Show”, an indication of the rapper’s eccentric side, as he adjusts his vocal tone to a highly odd accent and vividly describes all kinds of society’s weirdos, over a minimalist, bouncy fairground-inspired beat. His twisted, dark humour is literally on show here: he reminds me of Brotha Lynch Hung or the pre 2002 Eminem. “Fair Weather Fan” is one of my favourite songs, and it finds Louis presenting both the views of several fans and critics about his music and his own response to these resulting criticisms, over Memo’s wonderfully dark, computer-inspired beat. The best and most controversial song is undoubtedly “The Ugly Truth”. Over another solemn, eerie beat this time crafted by The Record Collecter, Louis satirises the views of racist America by describing several minority races through mockery of standard racial stereotypes and rhetoric. You have to hear it to see how well done it is but it demonstrates to the letter how creative Louis Logic is; I have never heard a song quite like this one. He's got one hell of an imagination; his storytelling is on a par with Nas or Ice Cube, and the worlds he constructs are fantastical and weird.  
 
It follows that one of the main features of Louis Logic’s philosophy towards life is that he doesn’t really take too much seriously; you won't see much political or social commentary instead Louis uses the creative side of his brain. “Coochie Coup” is an enjoyable song about one of his main passions, sex. Spitting lines like “You see as much as I love pu**y | you can't feed it to me because I don't eat anything that bleeds for a week and don't die” and sporting ODB lines for the hook it’s a funny way at looking at typical subject matter. And yes, even when he switches up the subject matter, he avoids any laziness and keeps the complexity of his rhymes. “Dos Factuom” is just a beautiful song, as Louis describes a wild night out when heavily inebriated – alcohol is his other main passion. What’s best about this song, however, is the magnificent production by J.J. Brown – we’re talking about lilting/JJ|VBG guitars and a dreamy horn sample creating a really surreal atmosphere.  
 
And that brings me nicely onto J.J Brown’s considerable talent as a beatmaker; next to Madlib, Stoupe and R2JD this guy has to be one of the best underground producers around. Not one song on this album is below par beatswise, and he provides 90% of them. “Postal” has a wonderful switching beat; starting off with cheeky trumpets and a cavernous bassline then changing to a bouncy piano-blessed instrumental, which is great backing to a hilariously inventive story of two halves from Louis Logic about a fed-up and bored office worker who eventually goes “postal” – a sly satire of a plague of modern American society. The best of the best, though, is the wonderful lead single “Idiot Gear”. Over one of the catchiest choruses and keyboard loops I’ve heard for a long time – it’s like a distant cousin of Gang Starr’s “Mass Appeal” (yeah, THAT good) – Louis kicks fast flowing and charismatic lyrics about why you might not want to find out about an ex-girlfriend’s exploits with her past boyfriends. It’s an unashamedly male song, and most blokes I’m sure will be able to relate to it. Needless to say, the great production is simply only a continuation of J.J. Brown’s work on the rest of the album.  
 
“Sin-A-Matic” surprised me. I knew it was going to be good, but I didn’t realise quite how good. Louis Logic conforms to no stereotypes or trends; he does his own thing; while his twisted humour might offend some it simply confirms to me that he is something different from much of the brainless crap that has invaded mainstream rap. There’s not a weak track, this is top three of 2003 material, check it out – especially if you are a big Underground Hip Hop fan.  
