Many people who listen to hip-hop, even underground hip-hop, have absolutely no clue who the Demigodz are. The Demigodz have been hailed as the new comical version of the Wu-Tang Clan. The Demigodz are a huge group, embedded deep within the underground, specifically the east coast underground scene. The extremely talented organization consists of a whopping 13 members, which includes 10 emcees and 13 producers / djs. Its pretty interesting that they can compose an entire label with just these emcees. Each emcee has his own personality and style, but they honestly are all ill emcees who have competed and won a variety of battle competitions. The Demigodz are: the humorous Apathy, who has been hailed as the new Eminem, Celph Titled, Open Mic, Louis Logic, complex intelligent emcee Esoteric, Rise, El-Fudge, Spin 4th, One-Two, and Motive. The DJs are 7L, Chum the Skrilla Guerilla, and Franky Needles. These 13 individuals make up the Demigodz. In 2002, they released an underground EP entitled The Godz Must Be Crazy, which is just a taste of what is in store from these emcees.  
 
 
Track List & Rating  
 
1. Intro (NOT RATED)  
2. Science of the Bumrush (5 Stars)  
3. Captivate Deactivate (5 Stars)  
4. The Demigodz (5 Stars)  
5. Off the Chrome (4 1/2 Stars)  
6. Don't you even go there (5 Stars)  
7. The Godz Must be Crazy (5 Stars)  
 
 
"Intro" is HILARIOUS from the start and puts a smile to my face. First of all, it is a sheer copy of the intro to Dr. Dre's The Chronic, even the very same G-Funk beat to start it. Apathy does his best Snoop Dogg impression, introducing the Demigodz in the same way that Dr. Dre's album began, with pure trash talk. Apathy claims that now its beyond battling, now they go to shows and fight people, in which he is claiming of the incident in New York a few months before where the Celph Titled went on stage during underground rapper Cage's performance, and got into a fist-fight with him because he refused to battle, which is all apart of the beef between the Eastern Conference All-Stars and the Demigodz... LONG STORY.. but now lets get to the album...  
 
"Science of the Bumrush" kicks off the album. Apathy starts the song by hitting us with tight humorous storytelling lyricism similar to the way Eminem used to do, with very tight battle raps and stories. Its amazing how well these guys can write lyrics, and its shown on this track. Its funny, well-written, and very lyrical, with multi-syllable flows and multi-bar rhyme schemes. These guys are on their way to being legends if they keep this up. The beat is also tight, featuring a hard assortment of trumpets and horns, and some low bass.  
 
The Demigodz continue with "Captivate Deactivate". Esoteric, Celph Titled, Open Mic, and Apathy give us another underground classic. All of these emcees drop awesome verses over some melancholy production, with synthesized drums, and fast violin. Celph lays a clever diss to Eve, calling her a crack-wh*re. Apathy lays down a tight verse against commercial rap, giving us some VERY VERY Clever rhymes: "And y'all ain't basement, y'all are locked in the cellar / Ain't sayin sh*t like a Helen Keller acapella / And we originated "Root Beers" for ya frigid air / So emcees had to get day-jobs with Medicare" Awesome...  
 
Apathy and Celph Titled trade verses on "The Demigodz", showcasing one of the most memorable punchlines ever: "Rappers are gettin wrecked due to lack of respect / Cuz y'all couldn't get signed if you was the back of a check". I had to rewind that to hear it... so clever. Both emcees drop humorous battle raps similar to how Eminem would do. The chorus is funny and memorable, dissing other emcees, and laying down some disses towards Eastern Conference All-Stars. Celph Titled comes off with some funny-a** sh*t on this track: I am the feature presentation, your rhymes are just a segment / A b*tch could just look at me, and get herself pregnant / I make bustin a gat look good cuz I hold it well / In second grade I brought a live grenade to class for show-and-tell"  
 
Louis Logic, Apathy, and Celph Titled come together on "Off the Chrome". Same idea as before, hilarious battle rhymes, aimed at the Eastern Conference All-Stars. In between the verses, we get an interlude about a crazed fan, as they kick tight freestyles, with the beat changing each time. The first is more of a laid-back style, and the second has some slamming bass, and the third sounds a little bit like both. This is a nice concept track, driven by amazing punchlines. Celph Titled sounds kinda disturbed on here by the way, so everybody knows. The same three emcees return on the head-bobbing "Dont you even go there". The track features humorous punchlines over some funky productions.  
 
The Godz Must be Crazy EP ends with the title track where every member of the Demigodz appears to drop verses. No catchy choruses, no special hooks, just pure lyricism. During the track, the beat is altered every once and a while a tiny bit, to make it sound fresh and not repetitive, which is a great idea by the Demigodz. These are some amazing, punchline driven battle raps which explains why these guys are so good as battling. In my personal opinion, Louis Logic, Apathy, Motive, and Rise drop the illest rhymes... check out this sample from Louis' verse:  
 
I'm a Demigod, what'd you expect? From a man  
who met Mother Nature, looked under her dress and wasn't impressed  
The same stupid son of a b*tch who doesn't respect  
The Angel of Death's request when he comes to collect  
Run in and check, my cassette - it's a slight chance  
you might see, demons escapin from in the deck, and now that I...  
"Sweet Jesus, please see us through this  
I ain't tryna die over a beef with Louis!"  
But when I increase the rudeness of my evil music  
It leaves the stupid, people skewered and leaks ya fluids  
into the streets and sewers, if by chance God sees me do it  
Should shoot a big hole down to Hell and lead me to it  
 
WOW!  
 
The Demigodz win the award for Best New Hip-Hop Group with this EP. The Godz Must be Crazy EP is one of those albums that should be owned by collectors and hard underground hip-hop heads. Its fresh, extremely well produced, and hilarious. You will be rewinding the album more than once to hear those hilarious punchlines that they drop. When it comes to subject matter, they dont deviate from battle raps, which is sad, but good since its what they do best and of course, this is just the EP, the introduction of the Demigodz. This is more than deserving of 5 stars, but im going to give it 4 because of its shortness. But i highly reccomend buying this if youre in the mood to laugh and got some extra money lying around, cause they are right, "The Gods MUST be crazy..."  
