Cam has been around for a little while now, and has come from Sports, Drugs, and Entertainment to Confessions, now to his greatest solo album so far, COME HOME WITH ME. Cam’ Ron and the Diplomats being the new act on the juggernaut record company Roc-A-Fella records, has been the biggest signing in the east since the Yankees signed Jeter. This new Cam’ Ron shocks the world, and no person in their right mind would have thought it to be a hit. Cam’ Ron has come with more lyrics on this album, and he gets very deep on a couple songs. One thing that sets Cam apart is his hooks and chorus'. He has three hit singles, which had every club on the western hemisphere bobbing their heads. This is an album that won’t disappoint if you were to purchase. Cam ‘Ron makes you respect his different style because he is filling a void in the industry. I mean he is doing it his way, which only takes one word to explain, PINK. Most people don’t respect his uniqueness in the industry and his style of rapping and doing things. This is a album that is out of the norm, and it leaves you with your mouth open, Cam is doing it big. There are only a couple negatives, the beats get boring towards the end of the CD, and he gets repetitive, but other than that it is a good CD.  
 
Here Are A Few Reviews of Songs:  
1) INTRO- Even the intro is good. He starts off with legendary DJ Kay Slay, and then goes into ripping the beat apart, from the intro you can tell he is coming with something hot on this CD.  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
2) LOSING WEIGHT PART 2- Cam and the rest of the diplomats tears up this song, they discuss how they lose weight, as in drug weight, the lyrics are the hot on the track, and it is what I believe to be the grimiest beat on the album, they kept the lyrics Grimy too.  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
3) OH BOY- well this song sort of speaks for itself. Everybody knows this street anthem, and Cam even made a actual cologne named "Oh Boy." Oh boy is a song where the hook actually made the song. There has even been rumors that they made the song in 20 minutes because they freesyled it. Well, you can tell, the lyrics aren’t to strong, and if more time would have been put in they could have done 10 times better. But it is still a great single, now everybody is saying "oh boy," and that is the goal of a single.  
Song Rating: 3 Microphones  
 
4) LIVE MY LIFE (LEAVE ME ALONE)- This is the most gansta beat of all time coming from one of the greatest, 2pac, from his "Ambition as a Rider" hit. It very dangerous to sample one of the best beats of all time, Cam did the beat some justice though, he ripped it.  
Song Rating: 4 1/2 Microphones  
 
5) DAYDREAMING- This is an awful thug love song. He comes nowhere close to Jigga's "Song Cry." It has entirely too much singing and only a couple short verses, it definitely has no playtime in my player.  
Song Rating: 1 1/2 Microphones  
 
6) COME HOME WITH ME- This is a song where Cam shows off some of the skills of his Dip Set peep’s. It is not a song that will knock you off your feet, but the lyrics wasn’t all that bad because they all had a couple of good punch lines, so it is not all that bad, but the beat is annoying.  
Song Rating: 3 Microphones  
 
7) WELCOME TO NEW YORK CITY- Now Cam is getting the meat of the album, JAY-Z, good move by Cam to get label mate and legendary rapper Jay-Z on the track. They are discussing their stomping grounds and I love it. It is definitely the best song on the album, and what I think should have been the first single, but Cam came hard with the lyrics, and Jay-z always does so in my estimation, this is a hit.  
Song Rating: 5 Microphones  
 
8) HEY MA- We all know this as the second single off the album, but it is not that bad. The beat is crazy and it fits perfectly with the mood of the song as a whole. The video is even better with one-legged Frankie with Gucci crutches throws a crutch away and starts c-walking, very creative and humorous. The song has a good hook but the lyrics were a little too basic and nursery rymish.  
Song Rating: 3 1/2 Microphones  
 
9) ON FIRE TONIGHT- Well, now we see a little bit of the Dip Set’s hype man, Freaky Zekey in Action, the skit before the song where he talks about a female “burning” him (for you all who don’t know what burning is, it is women having a STD, and a man having intercourse with her without a condom on) and he makes it funny to get burnt. Cam goes in and talks about that touchy situation. It’s Funny!  
Song Rating: 4 Microphones  
 
10) STOP CALLING- This a song that I believe to be even funnier. This is a song that starts off with a man callin Cam to ask him di he f*** his girl, and Cam plays with him and asks him who’s your girl, then Cam starts rapping on the situation and all that he and his crew did to her, for example:  
Well, I'ma tell you straight up, homeboy cause it's a cold world  
Your wife, I call her "Oh girl" her head makes my toes curl  
And she awfully thick, help me get off these bricks  
Coffee kick, but after I bust, I be like "Get the f**k off me b***h"  
If she front, bruise her in the ribs  
But you hugged her, you loved her, moved her in the crib  
Hit by cupid, stupid, why'd you do it? Why be bother?  
Why you holla? Three babies, three baby fathers  
Get wise kid, open your eyelids, cause that last abortion?  
That was my kid, that's right, but that I ain't followin'  
If she get pregnant again, it'd be from swallowin'  
But once in a while I dive in it, that car you bought?  
I be drivin' it, head while I'm drivin it  
Said you like to lay up dog, and play footies  
But she need a ni**a with timbs, gats and straight hoodies  
That’s only the first verse of the song. I believe that this is the best song lyrically on the album because of the crazy play with words.  
Song Rating:5 Microphones  
 
Reasons to buy:  
1. Originality  
2. Personality of Cam  
