Well lets get right to the point I was a big owner of Taurus. I have own practicly all models except this one. Taurus has always been on the cutting edge for technology and power over most manufactures cars that are comparable to the taurus. One of the main reasons why Taurus made it into the nascar races because Taurus was building a name for themselves of making powerfull cars. in 1995 Taurus came out with their ultimate car which was the 3.8liter v6 SHO taurus folks let me tell you if you ever get a chance to ride in a 3.8 liter v6 SHO taurus do so because the minute that person lays his foot on the pedal your jaw will be in the back seat. Why am i bringing this up because this is all important do to the fact how ford taurus has progressed into a awesome car. That i kept buying because each year they kept getting better and better. Then all sudden the ovals came out and a smaller taurus. Then next was the smaller engine. when i ask the manufacture if they have more engine packages he said no 3.0 is it. Come on. So i forgave them and look into the interior i wasn't impress it wasnt up to par with the typical norm of ford taurus in the pass. It was cheap material. The hole dash board layout is totaly illogical. It came with a cassete deck has default and no cd player. I'm sorry but cassete deck built into the dash. Cassete deck shouldnt even exist anymore in the car. I praticlly laughed my head off when i saw this. ford most still be living in the 1980's. Most foreign cars if not all come standard deafualt with a cd player built into the dash. cassete then becomes optional and thats how it should be. Air climate control totally sucks should be digital and temperature driven by degress. They moved the unlock and lock on the up part of the door and not down where the fingers would normally be. who in the world came up with that idea they must have been smokin somethin. The spedometer totally sucks also you cant tell what the heck speed your doing. theirs more lines and dashes then their are actuall speed listings so you have to study the damn dash to figure out what speed you are doing. The console cup holders arent big enough. The sterring on the car seems like it has a huge understeer to it. It almost seems like you have to turn the wheel around 5 times just to get it to do a square corner. On the passanger side their is abosultey no place for you to lay you feet down flat. When you sit down your feet are always propt up on something. And of course i could go on with the list. The only good thing it has going for itself is the fact that it has a smooth ride. and thats it. o and the trunk size is decent. thats it. O just though of another bad the sound system in the car is terriable its really tinney sounding and the radio stations sound really far away when their not. Ford has ruined the Taurus and this model i will not buy. It breaks me heart to say this but i will probably not by another taurus until i see improvement. I will be heading over to the toyota series of cars now. Because it seems like the foreigns have more innovation and techonolgy in their cars now. Ford is still living in the 1980's. And i do beleive when they came up with the ideas for this new series of ford taurus that they must have been smoken something for sure.  
