The Mitsubishi Lancer is all new for the 2002 model year, replacing the cute, yet infamous Mitsubishi Mirage. While the Mirage was a cheap car made with cheap materials, its successor boasts only slight quality improvements at a much higher price. While the commercials may have young trendy adults singing to 'Barenaked Ladies' and seeming to have a great time with this car, I have come to the conclusion that singing along to trendy rock tunes with the Lancer's 100 watt stereo system may be one of this car's only fun attributes.  
 
For 2002 the Mitsubishi Lancer comes in 3 trim lines, the ES (my tester), LS, and OZ. All trim lines come with a 2.0 SOHC 4-cylinder engine that pumps out a lackluster 120 horsepower at 5,500 RPM, and 130 lb-ft of torque at 4,250 RPM. Power is distributed to the front wheels via a standard 5-speed manual transmission, or a 4-speed fully automatic transmission (as was in my tester).  
 
Note: If you plan on buying the sport model 'OZ' Edition don't plan on getting any better performance than with the base models. The OZ has the same 120 horsepower 2.0 4-banger mated with the same transmissions. According to the November 02 issue of Motor Trend Magazine, a version of the high performance Mitsubishi Lancer Evo VII will be available sometime next year.  
 
Driving impressions:  
 
With a hefty curb weight of 2,700 Lbs, 120 horses, and peak torque reached a relatively high RPM, off-the-line acceleration mated with the 4-speed fully automatic transmission came, at first with slight hesitation, and then with needed patience. The engine and exhaust noise is slightly isolated from the driver, but no better or worse than say a 1997 SOHC base modeled Ford Escort. Compared to its predecessor; the Mirage, the 2002 Lancer ES does seem a bit zippy, but this out-right performance is far from blowing my skirt up. Although the 4-speed automatic transmission is somewhat smooth, it is probably not the best pick for this SOHC 2.0 set-up. I'd recommend going with the 5-speed if you must choose this car.  
 
While not exactly 'super fun', handling in the 2002 Lancer ES is well balanced and surprisingly sporty. Despite the heavy curb weight, and the small wheels & tires, I never felt that I was going to lose control on the twistys, nor was I conscious of this car's relatively hefty curb weight while driving. Body roll is minimal, and the steering is excellent.  
 
Cruising in this small sedan is also good. The suspension, while being sporty, also allows for a comfortable ride while cruising at high speeds. Bumps and rattles can be present on certain road surfaces, but this usually is not too annoying. Wind, engine, and road noise do play a factor at high speeds as with most economy cars, but this should only aggravate the most picky of drivers. Hills are taken fairly well. The 4-speed automatic will shift down into 3rd gear on almost any incline, but the ride remains calm, and the engine doesn't get as loud or as fussy as with some car's engines in this class while accomplishing these sorts of tasks. Braking is average. The Lancer ES comes standard with front wheel disc/rear drum brakes without ABS. Despite this cost effective, health hazard set-up, the Lancer stopped with little effort and felt more like a 4-wheel disc set-up than the dinosaur set-up which it was equipped with.  
 
Fuel economy is a little disappointing. The EPA rates this car with an automatic at only 31 MPG during freeway driving. This EPA is almost 10 MPG less than the EPA ratings for the Honda Civic and Toyota Corolla.  
 
Engine Gripes: If Mitsubishi is going to charge this much cash for their cars, they are going to need to pay much more detail to their powertrains. SOHC engines in expensive cars, or even sport oriented cars are not at all desired. More technology, DOHC designs, including VVT would be welcomed. Mitsubishi needs to stop spending so much money on their fancy commercials and start investing this money on making some good cars like they once did, i.e the Mitsubishi 3000GT.  
 
 
Interior Accommodation:  
 
I have read a few reviews on this car over at www.cars.com, and despite many reviewers saying this car has the interior set-up of the 1980s Chrysler K cars, it is nowhere near that bad, but the interior does leave a lot to be desired. The interior, while very dated does have a functional design and easy ergonomics. The drivers position is also very good which offers great vision in all directions, and easy access to the instrumentation. With the convenience package, and even without it, amenities are plentiful for a car in this category. Dual Air bags, AC, intermittent windshield wipers, tachometer, and a 100 watt, 4-speaker Mitsubishi sound system is standard. This sound system is clear, but no Bose by any means. The convenience package adds some items such as cruise control, and 60/40 split bench rear seats. www.mitsubishi.com has more info on all standard and optional equipment that can be had for the ES and other Lancer trim lines. The front bucket seats are a major complaint, I found them hard to the 'butt touch', and offered little back support. The Lancer ES's cargo and storage is adequate at most, the trunk is small, but there are plenty of pockets in the cabin for small items, like broken knobs etc.  
 
 
Exterior Innovation:  
 
The exterior of the 2002 Lancer is really nothing to write home about, but it's no ugly duckling either. Mitsubishi played it pretty safe with the styling of this small sedan. I do like the front fascia, as it offers a chrome grille, and an 'open mouthed' front bumper which adds a little more sexy modern appeal to this otherwise blase 'get lost in traffic' car. The headlights are with see-through effects which also help this car keep with the 'times'.  
 
Price, Reliability, & Warranty:  
 
For 2002 the Lancer ES with a manual transmission starts at around $14,000, however, with options, such as an automatic transmission the price quickly rises to near $17,000 as was my tester's sticker price. Mitsubishi has never been known for their reliability, however it has been improving, if anything does go wrong with your 2002 Lancer, Mitsubishi offers an 'average' 3 year, 36,000 mile bumper to bumper warranty, and a 5 year, 60,000 mile powertrain warranty.  
 
Looking for a faster, yet more fuel efficient economy car? You may want to check out my review on the Toyota Corolla  
 
 
 
- Happy Car Shopping!  
