Why would anyone want to buy this car? The extra $6-7K buys you a car that has worse handling characteristics than an Accord. And except for memory/heated seats, xenon headlamps and 4 pieces of plastic "wood" everything else is offered in the less expensive Accord. Well, everything but the engine....  
 
This is an ultra responsive engine. In enhancing this engine, Acura liberally borrowed a host of technologies from the NSX and Honda Racing design pool. And it shows... the acceleration is strong and linear. It will beat out an Audi S4 Tiptronic or at the least hang with it.  
 
However once it has provided the "orgasmic" acceleration and reaches cruising it shifts into 5th and is very hesitant to move out. Its performance becomes more like a lofty cruiser. No problem here, thank god for the sportshift mode that allows you to do your own thing!  
 
Now, although the engine is truly superb the body is terrible. What a shame! The 260 HP powerhouse is not suited for this chassis and is a big mismatch. Driving it in its present form makes the chassis beg for mercy. I would rather drive the 200 HP Accord V6 than this. The immense amount of power mated with the front wheel drive creates lots of torque steer (which Acura 'claims' it has eliminated but that is just press hype). The tires/wheels are also poorly selected for this kind of power. It makes the vehicle very difficult to steer on rough pavement and at higher speeds.  
 
The VSA system does not work well as I tested this out several times at the racetrack and the car exhibited some about of skidding out. And the car that I was driving, with exactly 3700 miles, was rattling like an old clunker.  
 
Many people will think that just because it has 260HP makes it a sports car. Hell no! The handling characteristics of a car are of prime importance and this car will NOT qualify for the sports car/sedan moniker. Sorry!  
 
The build quality is very substandard with large gaps all over the body...especially near the doors. I do not know if this is by design but whatever, it looks terrible!  
 
Ergonomics are average but not excellent. I was not able to fit two drinks in there...the handrest and the shifter gets in the way. Poorly designed. Also, the sunroof switches are hidden on the dash instead of by the sunroof!  
At another time when I wanted to get a plant into the trunk I could not because the rear seatback is bolted on and does not fold down. Also, although it is longer than an Accord, interior room is less because of some wierd design cues.  
 
This car has no redeeming qualities at all and is a complete waste of money. I would just buy the Accord V6 and save the extra bucks. If you want a real fun to drive sports sedan spend the extra $$$ and buy a BMW 3 series. You can get a fully loaded pre-owned 3 series with very low miles for within this price range.  
 
The 3 series is expensive for a reason. All good things cost money :) It has the best safety in its class, handles like its on rails and has drop dead gorgeous styling.  
 
An alternative, although expensive, is the Audi S4. Go test drive the S4 and you would not want to touch this TL with a 10 foot barge pole! The S4 is truly exhillarating but it is currently selling above sticker (obviously!)  
 
The bottom line (update):  
If Acura were to offer a higher priced pure performance-oriented version of this model for driving enthusiasts - with AWD, 245/45R18 tires, more comfortable seats to compensate for the stiff suspension, improved braking, real wood trim, 6-speed manual, reduce length to 186-188" while maintaining interior room and improve the sedate styling, this would attract a lot of attention and seriously compete with bonafide sports cars like the Audi S4.  
