My neighbor bought one of these, the sport model. I'd seen them before out on the road and I always thought they looked cheap, almost plastic like... First off the colors they offer....blech....to make a cheap product look nice they should offer something nicer than maroon. NOt to hurt my neighbors feelings even when they thought they had bought a top of the line product I just kind of shrugged and said it was "nice". My first thought was, morons, should've bought an Odyssey or a Windstar or even a Quest. I think that most people that buy the Villager really want a Quest but just can't afford one.  
 
So my neighbor took me for a spin in her new van. The door handle felt just like I suspected...cheap like I could just twist it right off the van... The seat felt like I was sitting on a tower with the windshield against my face. I swear I could see my breath's on the windsheild while she drove. There was no center console, a big drawback in my opinion and something that should be standard on a more than basic model. The controls were all handy but again, cheap looking. The interior was very drab and the seat covers covered up that mistake well. The ride was very stiff and loud and the acceleration seemed sluggish. I did not feel safe at all in this van. I'd say the back seating was sufficient except for the very back seat. There did not seem to be much leg room.  
 
What did I like? The trunk and back window. YOu can open the trunk completely or just the window. There is a handy shelf system but it's made of plastic and I feel this will probably break after a while somehow. I also like the length of the vehicle. It would probably be easy to move from a sedan to this vehicle and wouldn't take long to get used to it.  
 
I've seen a lot of these Villager's out on the road and I've noticed they don't hold their shiney integrity once they're a year old or so. They start to look, cheap, the paint dulls right up and the two tone models just exagerate this even more in my opinion. They show scuffs and scratches very easily, maybe it is the quality of paint they use? I'd say pass this vehicle up. It did not do well at all on crash tests and for what my neighbor paid ($28,000) they could have gotten an a lot nicer minivan. In my opinion, steer clear of this van. You'll be dissatisfied in the long run. And never pay more than $22,000 if you have to have one. As the saying goes, you get what you pay for!  
