I rented a PT Cruiser for a weekend trip from Vancouver, BC to Sooke on Vancouver Island, so my review is not based on long-term ownership. However, approximately 300 miles of city and highway driving did give me a good feel for the Cruiser's strengths and weaknesses.  
 
On the plus side, the exterior styling is certainly distinctive. Overall I think it works well and is evidence of a strong commitment to design at Chrysler. Inside, the driving position is almost perfect, and although the driver's seat in the model I drove did not adjust for height, it was extremely easy to get comfortable. The Cruiser's ride is smooth, soaking up the potholes and uneven surfaces of Vancouver Island's roads with ease. Luggage space, too, is a strong point, with lots of room underneath the rear hatchback, and useful storage trays.  
 
Negatives, unfortunately, outweigh the positives, at least on the model I drove. I say unfortunately because I wanted to like this car enough to recommend it, and I'm always glad to see North American manufacturers make a genuine attempt to produce innovative designs.  
 
The biggest issue may be resolved by going for the five speed manual, but the automatic model I drove was seriously hampered by a transmission that always seemed to be in the wrong gear, took ages to downshift, and left the car struggling on steep inclines. Fifteen years ago, an autobox this poor may have been the norm, but in 2002 it's unacceptable. Many manufacturers, including Honda, Toyota and VW, offer far superior automatic transmissions, even on their low end models. That said, if I get the chance to drive a five speed model any time soon, I'll update my review accordingly.  
 
Handling is only average, with some significant body roll and steering that is all but absent of feel or accuracy. Perhaps handling quality has been sacrificed at the expense of the smooth ride, but many other manufacturers seem able to balance these qualities far more effectively.  
 
Forward visibility is excellent, thanks in part to the upright driving position and large, steeply-angled windshield. However, shoulder-checking to change lanes or pass reveals a significant blind spot caused by the thick rear pillars. The large exterior mirrors help to a certain extent, but they also seem to generate a lot of wind noise at high speeds.  
 
While the interior does have some nice touches, such as the chrome-rimmed, white-faced dials and body-colored accents, it is dominated by expanses of cheap plastic. Switchgear doesn't have quite the same brittle, low rent feel as most GM products, but it isn't in the same league as the Japanese competition, let alone VW.  
 
Overall, I can't recommend the PT Cruiser. Competitors such as the VW Golf and New Beetle, the upcoming MINI and Toyota's Matrix still seem to be a long way ahead of Chrysler in combining style AND a great driving experience.  
