After reading the positive reviews posted on epinion, I thought I would share my negative experience with consumers. It seems the Ford focus is a hit or miss model; the cars built right run fine, but those that miss the mark are unreliable and a hazard on the road.  
 
We bought a new Ford Focus three months ago (June 2002)in Las Vegas. The research (albeit a limited internet search) told of a car which was inexpensive, safe, well built and sporty. One week after we bought the focus, the car died on a busy freeway. It was repaired and returned in two days. Trusting the reliability of a new car, we drove from Nevada to Tucson, where it died again on a stretch of road called properly termed "Dead Man's Highway" in the middle of summer. Anyway, this type of incident occurred twice more since we've owned the focus. And considering the car has been in the shop for almost half that time doesn't bode well for Ford reliabilty.  
 
Fuel pump problems seem to be our burden, but other focus owners have different, but equally disappointing problems with their vehicles. Something common to all focuses though are brake problems. Car rental companies with focuses on their lot are told to replace brake pads at 15,000-20,000 miles because pads fail like clockwork. Car owners, unfortunately, are only given a warranty on brakes for 3 years or 12,000 miles, so replacement pads are an out-of-pocket expense. A repeated problem continually found on focus complaint records are brakes that squeal and grind. The problem cannot be fixed, and Ford denies there are any design flaws. A website dedicated to filing a class-action lawsuit against Ford, www.fordfocusbreakproblems.com, might be of further help. Also, read the negative reviews found on carsmart.com. I believe my idea of a "hit or miss" car will be clear from the reviews posted on that site.  
 
For those who love your focus, I am jealous. I wish I could spend my weekends some place other then Ford service centers. For those who are looking to buy, do the research. Please heed my warning and don't risk your time and money into a Ford focus. 
