UPDATE: I am writing this update after owning my 2001 Ford Focus wagon only 4 1/2 months. After taking my vehicle to the auto dealership to have them investigate why when the windows go down (especially the rear ones) an extremely loud and painful vibration occurs. When the service tech was in the car for a drive to understand the problems noted to him my husband rolled down the windows. The tech described the sound and discomfort to when his ear drum broke a few months back. As you can see the noise is painful!! The tech then called the engineering department at Ford to find out how to deal with the problem. The engineer had no idea as to how to fix the problem and said he had a stack of similar complaints on his desk. Ford is selling Focus wagons knowing there is a window problem. I am now in the process of finding out how to handle this problem. How discouraging to buy a brand new car and be making payments and can't even roll down my windows!! Beware when checking into purchasing this vehicle.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are spending too much on gas for that van, I told my husband. With that comment I went on my search for a new vehicle.  
 
I knew I needed and wanted something big enough to still haul stuff like lumber or my kids bikes. A regular car trunk just isn't deep enough for transporting lumber or long items. So, I knew if I wasn't getting another gas eating van it would have to be some sort of station wagon.  
 
Now, narrowed down to body type I went on my search of different makes and models of station wagons. My first priority was price. Being a family of 5 money is tight and I needed something affordable, but of good quality. I checked the prices of the VW Jetta wagon and the Saturn wagon. Both were quite a bit more expensive! The Ford Focus was by far the more affordable of the three. Having access to a Ford A plan was another deciding factor. Ford also at the time of my purchase was offering rebates and interests rates of 500.00 cash back 6.9% interest or 1000.00 cash back and 7.99% interest.  
 
We all know you get what you pay for, and maybe thinking it is cheaper because it is lacking in features. This is far from the truth! The Focus Wagon has standard features such as; power door locks, power windows, CD player, air conditioning,and cruise control. Unfortunately, ABS breaks are not a standard feature and cost around 350-400 to have the option included.  
 
The ease of getting in and out of the car was another factor in my purchase. Unlike a lot of small cars the Focus Wagon seats sit higher. I really like the crank under the seat to adjust the seating height. I hate sitting in a car where my head almost touches the roof. That is not a problem in the Focus Wagon.  
 
The storage space in the back is extremely roomy and the pull over cover is an added plus. I went shopping for 2 weeks of groceries for a family of 5 and had no problems getting all the bags in comfortably. Space is definitely not a problem.  
 
The gas mileage is the most important feature of this vehicle. With today's gas prices going up this is a must feature to be looking at when choosing a new car! The engine in mine is a Zetec 4.25 L. It still has pep, but doesn't need a lot of gas to achieve the goal. My first fill up, after driving about 110 highway miles and then some city driving also, I figured the Focus Wagon got around 27 mile to the gallon!  
 
If you are looking for something affordable, roomy and has great gas mileage the Ford Focus Wagon is worth the money!  
