To the casual observer, the Ford Focus would seem to be little more than a big company’s entry into the small car segment. And to a certain degree that is true. What’s not readily obvious to most is that the Ford Focus has essentially redefined the compact car segment. Ford has done with the Focus something General Motors seems unwilling or unable to do with its small cars – build a reliable, fun, sporty, practical car offered in many different styles, all for a sticker price of under $20,000. In many ways the Focus has no competent rival. The Cavalier is a relic, the Corolla is getting rather pricey and while no one would argue with its reliability, the Civic seems so generic when compared to the much cooler Focus. In order to find a suitable alternative to the Focus, one has to look ahead to the 2003 model year at the Pontiac Vibe, or perhaps the new for 2002 Civic Si. But remember, the Focus has been around for years.  
 
For 2002 the Ford Focus is available in no less than six configurations: 3-door hatchback, 4-door sedan, station wagon, a hot-rod SVT, and now a 5-door hatchback, or ZX5. Although the new ZX5 is the main topic here, much of what will be said is also applicable to other Focus styles as well.  
 
Originally the Focus’ styling seemed odd, especially the hatchback versions. And certainly odd would be an appropriate way to describe the ZX5. 5-door cars have been a common sight on the roads of Europe for many years, but somehow our American tastes shied away from hatchbacks. Mazda made a 5-door version of its 626 in the early 90’s, and the awful Sterling brand had an available 5-door model, but the Focus and the VW Golf seem to be the most visible signs that American buyers silent boycott of 5-door hatchbacks is over (some may argue the Protégé 5 and Lexus SportCross fit that category as well).  
 
With its high roof line and tall stance, the ZX5 Focus seems to have almost a small van look to it from certain angles. The rear retains the 3-door’s funky taillight treatment, and the front is all Focus with those big eye looking headlamps and uncluttered hood.  
 
Standard equipment on the ZX5 Focus is impressive. Features such as a 6-disc, in-dash CD changer, alloy wheels, power windows, power mirrors and remote locking doors are quite a bargain at a price of $15,450. The ZX5 also comes standard with Ford’s 2.0 liter, 130 hp Zetec engine.  
 
Inside the ZX5 there is more room than one might expect from a compact car. Head room is ample, as is hip and shoulder room. Nothing is more frustrating than driving or riding in a car that seems to have more head room than any other car on the market, but causes you to rub shoulders with the person in the next seat. The rear seat folds flat to increase storage, but the Focus Wagon has more useable cargo space behind the rear seat. With the rear seat flipped up to carry people, the rear cargo area becomes a bit on the smallish side – again, why not just get the wagon. The only explanation for choosing the ZX5 over the wagon is style. If you need to carry five people and your under 30, go with the ZX5, if you’re over 30 chances are you could care less what anyone thinks about station wagons – get the wagon, it holds more stuff.  
 
The bold exterior styling carries over into the cabin of the ZX5. A large, round pod holds the stereo and various other controls, and the dash incorporates the exterior’s “creased edge” look. Seats are comfortable and adjust in many different ways, although those adjustments are manual in nature. Leather seating is available as an option, but the quality of that leather is lacking. It feels more like fake leather or “leatherette.” The driving position feels a little like that of a school bus at first - high, but it’s not nearly as bus-like as the PT Cruiser. Materials have a quality feel throughout, and the cheap plastic-like stuff shows up only occasionally.  
 
On the road, the Focus is surprisingly agile. This car is actually quite sporty. Handling is quick and precise, lacking the vague feel of other small domestic cars like the Pontiac Sunfire or Grand Am. Ride quality is excellent for a smaller car, and road noise is low as well. It’s no Lexus at highway speeds, but the ZX5 has a smooth quietness that feels similar to the Subaru Impreza or the Honda Civic.  
 
The 5-speed manual shifts without drama, and the lever goes into each gear with just the right amount of smoothness and enough resistance to make a stick-shift fun. Although the little Zetec engine has plenty of low end power, it is also quite rev happy, but without the harsh sound of many other 4 cylinder engines. 130 hp doesn’t sound like a lot of power, but the larger 4 cylinder Honda Accord has only 20 more hp, and the Toyota Corolla has 5 fewer horses than the Focus’ 2.0 liter engine. When ordered with the 5-speed, the Focus can seem quite powerful – second gear tire chirps are easy to come by. When shifting hard, there is noticeable torque-steer, but it does not feel dangerous as with other front wheel drive cars such as the SAAB 9-3. During normal driving, torque-steer is not noticeable at all.  
 
Overall, the Focus ZX5 is a very competent compact car. While most performance enthusiast eagerly await the pavement scorching SVT Focus, many want the practicality of a sedan, with the increased cargo room of a hatchback. The ZX5 is perhaps a compromise in many ways, and yet a stint behind the wheel makes one realize how little is actually sacrificed. The ZX5 offers nothing more or less than other Focus’ offer; youthful styling, peppy performance, superb handling, room for 5 adults, lots of convenience features, and a price well below $20,000. Essentially the Focus ZX5 is roomier than it looks, and sportier than it has to be – The Who said it best, “I’d call that a bargain…”  
