When I took delivery of this car in June 2002, it was little known and often mistaken for a Honda Civic. One of the first ones on the street of Toronto, I immediately got compliments taking the members of a local car club free rides in some twisty industrial areas. At that time, it was essentially considered "one of a kind". The price was near $30,000 (obviously pricey in hindsight), but it had the most bang for the buck.  
 
I had considered two other vehicles. The Subaru WRX and the Toyota Celica GTS. At 6'3", the Subaru WRX did *not* fit my physical dimensions. It had a too-low ceiling and not enough legroom. As for the Celica GTS, not only did I not fit in it, I considered it rather heavy for such limited power. The power-to-weight-ratio was less than desirable.  
 
After already having leased a Focus ZX3, the anticipation was killing me as I awaited the announcement of the replacement for the SVT Contour. I had premonitions that Ford would produce the SVT Focus, and that was confirmed in February of 2001. When Ford finally took orders in July of 2001, I was the first one at my dealership - without a test drive.  
 
At 170 bhp, the new SVT Zetec engine was the most advanced four-cylinder engine ever produced. Its variable intake manifold complimented well with the variable cam timing. With 145lb-ft of torque and 80% of that @ 2500rpm, torque-steer was still non-existent.  
 
The best feature in this car was its handling - it is NOT a 1/4mile car. Its revised suspension consisting of higher spring rates, larger stabilizers and 1/2" lowered stance, made this car corner like it was on a slot-car track. I was quite aware of this when after just 4500 km of daily driving, I had finally performed the official "breaking-in" at a local road track.  
 
Accompanied with higher-power Ford Mustangs both vintage and new, the SVT Focus ate them all for lunch through the corners. I carried most of my speed through the corners without having to brake. Though once I reached the straightaways, I had to say goodbye to all the distanced gained from the corners, watching helplessly as supercharged Mustangs passed me by.  
 
No worries. I fully enjoyed travelling to the twisting, crooked roads of Maine from Toronto, Ontario. Frost heaves in that region didn't affect the handling of the car too much. The off-cambered, blind 90-degree turns were no problem for the SVT Focus. I, on the other hand felt the instant gratification the moment the car stuck through the apex and out the other side.  
 
As a daily driver, after having driven it for more than a year, and as the gas prices rose to gasping proportions in Canada, it gets pricey. The reliability of the car is way above average (compared to other Foci). The cost of operation hits you in the maintenance. High-octane gas (91+) is the standard, though for spirited driving, I recommend Sunoco's 92 or 94. The cost of an oil change dramatically increases as well from that of the ZX3. After the break-in period, only synthetic oils touched the inside of the engine. AMSOIL or Mobil-1 comes to mind.  
 
Compared to other sport compacts of similar size, the SVT Focus has PUNCH. It beat the Honda Civic Si and the VW GTI in Road& Track magazine as the best valued car given the performance characteristics. Sure, you could also probably modify other imports and *try*, just *try* to match its overall package, but if you don't feel like spending your time and extra money trying to decide what *might* work for you, save your money and buy something that's FUN and FAST right out of the box. Just don't forget to break those tabs before operating.  
