Giddy-Up!  
 
Ford Mustang 2002 convertible.  
 
A few years ago Ford redesigned the Mustang and gave it back some its mid 1960 classic look, I never really understood Ford's decision to drop the so popular style of the 60's Mustang. I always thought that if Chevrolet could keep the sleek and racing style of the Corvette than why Ford could not have done the same not only for the Mustang. If you notice Ford had also done the for the fantastic T-Bird that lost all its classic styling in the early 70s.  
 
The Mustang convertible 2002 does have the look and body that tends to make cars become a classic. Who knows if it will ever be as popular as the original Mustang but it really does not matter because this automobile is a fun sport car to drive.  
 
Looking at the interior of the Ford Mustang with the top is down is impressive. I like the beauty of the interior and how all the gages and controls seems to be so compact and easy to read and reach.  
 
The car I drove was equipped with leather trim Sport bucket seats, they are optional for the Mustang 2002 but they certainly make that interior look very special.  
 
Once behind the steering wheel, I did feel a bit cramped in, but after a few minutes I got use to it. The armrest on the front console was at the right level and resting my arm on it brought my hands at the right place on the steering and felt good to hold it.  
 
The radio/CD player was an AM/FM stereo with a single in-dash CD player. The sound system is well located on the front console and is fairly easy to understand and operate. I did not think that the sound was as good as it should be but I guess who cares when the top is down and you are going for a early evening summer drive down a scenic country road.  
 
The exterior of this car is really something to look at, not only does it bring back the 60's style but it also gives the 2002 Mustang a look worthy of the new Millennium. The hood and side panels have air scoops and the trunk has a rear spoiler that will give this vehicle a real sport car design.  
 
I was not too impressed with the 17 inches aluminum wheels; to me it seems that wires wheels would look so much better with this car. This is something to consider to change in the after market for new Mustang owners.  
 
Driving the Ford Mustang 2002 convertible was quite a pleasing experience and one I will remember for quite a long time. If I would be a bit younger I would certainly consider buying one for myself. The car handle very well on the highway, and you have the feeling that it hugged the road very well.  
 
As for city driving this car is a dream, it is not to big to be a pain to drive around the city and at the same time it is big enough to be noticed.  
 
The Ford Mustang convertible I drove was had a V8 4.6 litter SOHC 16 valves engine, developing 260 horsepower. The transmission was a 4-speed electronic overdrive transmission. It also was equipped with 4-wheel disc brakes with ABS  
 
As for the Mustangs of the mid-60's after sitting a while in this car you will start to feel less comfortable but that put aside this is a fun car to own and drive, I believe that the price is right and anyone who buys a 2002 Ford Mustang should have years of pleasure driving it. 
