During its introduction in 1992 as a '93 model, Nissan boasted all sorts of things about the 'new' Altima. Some advertisements had the audacity to claim that the 1993 Altima looked like a Jaguar. Don't ask me what Jaguar looks like a Nissan Altima, but apparently the person who made that AD knew something I didn't or was in need of prescription glasses. The 1993 Nissan Altima had many flaws, and so did the 2nd generation. Finally, I think Nissan really has what it takes, with the 3rd generation Altima to be one of America's top 3 best sellers.  
 
Driving Impressions:  
 
The 2002 Nissan Altima comes in 4 trim lines, the 2.5, the 2.5 S, the 2.5 SL, and the 3.5 SE. Unfortunately I only got to drive a 2.5 S, but this does not mean I was not impressed. The 2.5, 16 valve, DOHC 4-cylinder is loads more refined over its predecessor. Hesitation is no longer an issue like it was in the 1st and 2nd generation models. My test Car was a 2.5 S, which offered adequate-borderline strong engine performance. With 175 horsepower, this comes close to the power that is associated with most V6 engines. Even with the 4-speed optional automatic transmission (a 5 speed is standard) the car moved from the light with no fuss whatsoever, with a slight sporting growl from the single, dual tipped, Exhaust pipe. Torque for this engine comes in at 181 lb-ft at a relatively low 4,000 RPM, so hill climbing and passing large trucks are accomplished with much less strain than most family cars that are powered by naturally aspirated powered 4-cylinder engines.  
 
Cruising was also very refined, not as quiet as a V6 Accord, but the driver is in a totally hushed environment while cruising at 65 MPH; given a well built freeway.  
 
Handling is a shade more refined over the 2nd generation models, but don't expect to see too much improvement, which is ok, because the Nissan Altima has always been a good car on the twistys. My test car came with 4 wheel disc brakes with 4 wheel ABS, which assured excellent braking. This set-up of course was an option, so unless you are willing to pay the cash, you will not see the ABS. 4 wheel Discs although are standard equipment.  
 
NOTE: Expect to get around 28 MPG while doing conservative freeway driving with the automatic, and 29 with the 5-speed. Also, just to do a little MPG comparison, 28 mpg is less than what a 3.8 liter OHV V6 'dinosaur engine' powered Chevy Impala receives. The Chevrolet Impala is heavier, has more horse power, has a bigger engine, less technology, yet gets better gas mileage, what gives??  
 
All 2002 Nissan Altima's ride on a 110" wheelbase, this is around 7" longer than its predecessor. The overall length of the car is also longer, measuring around 192". The suspension consists of struts and coil springs.  
 
 
Interior Innovation:  
 
The interior while not being as refined as many other cars on the market, and not having as much standard equipment, was quite surprising. The dash is a little on the cheap-o material side, but did come with a tachometer and a optional trip computer. I actually found the interior of the Hyundai Elantra GT, and Kia Sedona to be much more accommodating. There was an 'optional' 8 speaker Bose Cd player that sounded excellent. This option came with a convenience package. For the entire package, which also included AC, cruise control, power everything, and remote keyless entry with leather trimmed seats came close to adding on 3 grand to the sticker price. Speaking of seats, they were both supportive and comfortable, the driver seat was 8 way power, and the rear seats were of the 60/40 split variety which folded down. I would give you a comment of the ease of doing that, but I did not get the chance for conversion. A center console is standard, a micro air filter, and many other amenities are standard, including dual airbags. The interior is very spacious, and seems much larger than the 1st and 2nd generation Altima's. The cabin offers plenty of room for 5 adults.  
 
 
Exterior Innovation:  
 
 
The exterior (all new for 2002) is much more sleek/sporty over its predecessor. The 2002 Nissan Altima is fitted with flush mounted headlamps with see-through effects, and are slightly 'cat eyed' to give a modern appearance. The same theme is incorporated with the rear lights, only are more triangular. The 2002 Altima is very 'cab forward,' not a new theme by any means, I believe the 1986 Ford Taurus was one of the first designs to be considered 'cab forward.' From the side of the Altima you will undoubtedly notice that the rear is higher than the front, and will notice the sloping roofline. This car is the sexiest Altima yet!  
 
Price, Warranty, and Reliability:  
 
 
For 2002, a base Nissan Altima will run you around $15,000 with just standard equipment. With options however the price rises quite dramatically, the price on my test car was just over $20,000, and this was not even the 3.5 SE model. Both the 2.5 liter 4 banger, and the V6 are both new for 2002 so it's way too early to comment on reliability, but if anything happens to your car at the manufactures fault, it's covered under a, 3 year 36,000 bumper to bumper warranty and a 5 year 60,000 mile powertrain warranty.  
