HAHA! I "upgraded" to this TLS from a "fully loaded" BMW 328i about 5 months ago. So I am going to compare this car to the 328i. This will probably give a perspective to buyers who are considering a BMW also...DONT!! DONT! DONT! You may want to look cool...BUT!!!... ITS YOUR MONEY! Its NOT going to be cool when you start shelling out the serious $$$$ for all sorts of BMW service costs!  
 
First let me start by saying that I think the BMW is the most overrated pieces of garbage that exists in this universe. Now I may pi$$ some people off for saying this...but TOUGH! I have owned one for 3 years so I know what I'm talking about.. many of thost who speak so highly of the BMW have never even owned one!!  
 
HA! The BMW does not even come with leather standard...or power seats. So why is it so COOL, because of some idiotic badge on the hood??? That is a really stupid way of thinking! Sure the BMW handles great, but there are other cars that do that too for much less money, enough said!  
 
Now for the TLS. This is one heck of a car! I am totally in love with it. Everytime I get behind the wheel this car begs me to drive it to its potential. The acceleration is fabulous. The auto will do a pretty fine job, but if you want total control you can manually engage the sequential sportshift mode... this provides more fun than should be legally allowed in a automatic transmission vehicle!!! The SportShift SIMPLY BLOWS AWAY the BMW automanual CRAP. The engine response is far better in the Acura. Shifting also feels closer to a manual.  
 
The interior is FAR FAR superior to any BMW or Audi I have seen. It is very modern, the instrumentation is white faced and changes to black at night. The lighting at night is incredible! Other interior materials are terrific. The seats could be a little bit more supportive but overall they are great with the perforated leather. I specially like the sporty headrests...they simply look gorgeous! The storage spaces are plentiful. There are two cup holders in the center console and two HUGE storage compartments under the armrests. There is a coin area and plenty of storage in the door pockets also.  
 
The Acura Navigation system is the best out there. It is very easy to use, accurate and has a plethora of options. The graphics are great. Now, the voice guidance is a little irritating because it is a shrill Japanese accent (no offense to anyone :-) But this is inappropriate for the American market! I am told that the voice data is on the DVD so the new DVD release will change that!  
 
The BOSE system is pretty good. I would prefer a little more power/bass but the sound is very clear, there is no distortion even at very high volume.  
 
The body does ding a little too easily, but this happened on my 3 series also.  
 
As for fuel economy, I am getting 20-21 mpg in the city (perpetual LA stop and go traffic). This is another amazing feat of Acura engineering...to achieve this in a high compression V6. Obviously you will be using premium fuel on the Type-S.  
 
During the time I have owned this vehicle it has not given me a SINGLE problem. In fact, I need to now go and open the hood because I have not opened it for so long I forgot what the engine looks like :-) But of course I clearly remember what the BMW engine looks like because half the time something was malfunctioning inside!  
 
Are there better choices out there for the segment...resounding NO! For any price...Sure! You could buy a GS430 which is also a FANTASTIC vehicle, but its $52K fully loaded, thats a whole $20 (TWENTY THOUSAND DOLLARS!!!) more! A world apart in price!  
 
And for those comparing it with the Infiniti I35, NO! The I35 is a very very nice vehicle but it appeals to a completely different type of driver so NO comparison! The I35 is "cushier" ... more like a Lexus. The Acura is a bit less comfort but more handling!  
 
Finally, I would like to comment on CSXperts review. It is a gross exaggeration of the facts! The ride is a bit firm obviously but it is reasonably comfortable.  
 
Everybody with an IQ over 5 knows and thinks this is a VERY COOL car! Great value, performance, luxury and low maintainence costs!  
 
Thank you Acura for coming out with such an OUTSTANDING vehicle!  
 
I love this car but unfortunately I have decided that I will sell it in another year as it does not suit my purpose...I am looking at purchasing an SUV. There is so much debris on the freeway its insane, yesterday I almost ran over a tire...Phew! I need vehicle that can tough it out and also the 4x4 in the mountains, so maybe a Nissan Pathfinder, QX4 or why not an Acura MDX??? :-)  
