I completely disagree with the person who wrote the review titled "Acura TL Type-S: Lost any fillings lately?". Specifically there are a few things I want to point out.  
 
First, he said the ride is horrible. This is completely untrue. I have one, drive it every day, and if anything the ride is too soft. Fillings falling out? Perhaps he is used to riding around in a 1976 Cadillac Sedan DeVille, floating across the pavement with no connection to the road? Perhaps he needs a new dentist. The ride is hardly rough. He also states that it doesn't really do as well as it should for a front driver. Perhaps he should either drive one, or read what Road and Track said when they did an extensive review of the Type-S. Namely that it does NOT feel like a front driver at all, despite the fact that it is.  
 
Value. He mentions that it's too bad that there isn't a $30K performance sport sedan, and refers to BMW, Maxima and I30. First the BMW. What BMW can you buy that costs $31K? None. With an automatic, and a somewhat modest option list they easily soar past $35K. How about a nice 330i? $40K for a car with 35 HP LESS than the Acura, and less torque. Ok, to save money, drop down from the BMW 3.0 to the smaller engine. Have you driven one? I have (328is). They have NO low-end torque and feel like an economy car compared to the Type-S. Additionally have fun spending a thousand bucks+ for snow tires and rims for the BMW. Sure the handling is superior to the Acura, but for $9K I think I'll take a couple of European vacations. The bottom line, the value the Type-S has is very high, especially compared to the BMW.  
 
Ok, how about the Maxima? Have you driven this car?! I have driven the 2004 SE and it is SOFT. Feels more like an Accord. Great engine, lots of torque, and very quick, but clearly geared towards lots of highway miles and not back road driving.  
 
Bottom line is this car is a HUGE value. Absolutely amazing engine, and one of the best front driving cars I have ever driven. Don't just take my word for it, read the magazines and hear what the "professionals" have to say.  
 
/Gene  
