Plot Details: This opinion reveals no details about the movie's plot.  
This review is based on my own opinion as a family man and father of three boys, ages 4, 8 and 11. I consider myself a moderate person that is not overly protective or overly liberal. I believe parents are responsible to find a balance in making our kids aware of reality while at the same time protecting them (and their innocence) from it.  
 
I love Dr. Seuss stories. I grew up reading his books and still enjoy reading them to my sons. Shame on me for not checking the rating before taking the kids to the theater. I had assumed (like I'm sure many of you would) that it would be rated G. It's not. I think this rendition of the story would make Dr. Seuss roll over in his grave.  
 
The movie is absent 4-letter words and explicit sex scenes, but the inappropriate-for-children content and mature innuendos in this movie overshadow the story line and plot. There were enough instances that I cannot recall all of them, but multiple times during the movie I felt uncomfortable wondering if any of my three sons understood the inappropriate jokes. I later discovered my 11 year old understood all of them (I wish he hadn't), my 8 year old understood about 1/2 of them, and my 4 year old is still innocent enough to understood none of them (except the "butt scene").  
 
The most memorable moments that I did not appreciate are the "butt scene" - where the cat was outfitted with a large bare bottom, using the term "Dirty Ho" - referring to a dirty gardening hoe, and an acronym for the cat's vehicle is S.H.I.T.  
 
This story is written more for parents who are Mike Meyers fans more than it is for small children. It is full of funny faces, personality shifts, and one-liners that are classic Meyers. Kids like the quick transition and can relate to the main characters who are a boy and girl.  
 
The story line and plot itself is poor and doesn't flow nearly as smooth as a Dr. Seuss's classic should. This rendition pales in contrast to the other Seuss classic that was released in recent years, "The Grinch".  
 
In all fairness, my children enjoyed the movie. As an added bonus, my 8 year old said "Dirty Ho" for the first time and thanks to his older brother, now understands it too.  
 
This movie will leave you wanting more... of NEMO, that is.  
 
I WOULD NOT SEE THIS HERE OR THERE, I WOULD NOT SEE THIS AGAIN ANYWHERE...  
 
