Plot Details: This opinion reveals minor details about the movie's plot.  
This is the first movie I have given an F to all year. I'm sure there are other F movies, but I try to avoid seeing those. When I read all the bad reviews I was in denial. My 7 year old daughter wanted to see it, so I gave it a shot. I am a Michael Myer fan and although "The Grinch" was not all that great, I found it watchable. What I got was a shameless commercial, plugging the soundtrack, the cat in the hat merchandise and UNIVERSAL STUDIOS !!! I couldn't believe it, I was insulted. This movie has no value whatsoever. The story is non existent and Micheal Myers (whom I usually enjoy) compresses every character he's ever played into one big hairy annoying one. He even uses his "Fat Bastard" voice from Austin Powers. The visuals were good, Ill give it that. The colors and sets were Dr.Suessish.  
DOES ANYONE REMEMBER CAT IN THE HAT yelling "Bit*h" or getting hit in the privates with a bat. Or...referencing a dirty ho while holding a garden tool. Or belching....or showing his buttcrack !!!!! A dog even pees on someones food. If this is what Hollywood thinks is quality childrens entertainment...they are mistaken. Very innapropriate for children. It definitely takes a parent off guard to take their child to see, what you think will be a quality childrens movie, and get this terrible film.  
 
OK..OK...OK....now that I got that out of my system.  
 
Cat in the Hat is about 2 children living with there single mother. The young boy is a trouble maker, always getting into mischief and wrecking the house. The girl is like a 30 year old trapped in a 6 year old body. The mother is the typical workaholic mom who has no time for discipline. She is dating the neighbor man played by Alec Baldwin. He seems like a successful businessman, but behind closed doors, he's a drunken slob. Then as the mother goes off to work, the Cat in the Hat shows up to show these two kids how to have some fun. Thats about all the lot there is. The neighbor man tries to bust the kids, but of course he only makes himself look silly. If you'd like to know anything else...please see the top of my review.  
 
