Plot Details: This opinion reveals minor details about the movie''s plot.  
Ok let me get this out of the way: I did NOT like this movie. Borderline hated it. Now if you are only after positive reviews, then you might skip this, but if you are interested in why I thought it sucked, read on.  
 
To begin with, I only mildly like Will Ferrell. I don't think hes funny at all on SNL, but I was willing to give him a chance. I had seen previews for this a few weeks before it came out and it looked interesting, so I figured I would give it a shot.  
 
I'm very thankful that a local theater gives military discounts, I only paid $5.50 to see it, and after watching the movie, I feel like I COMPLETELY WASTED my money.  
 
It's a 100% kids movie. There is ZERO bad language in it. The special effects and props are EXTREMELY low budget and so fake its not even funny. You can clearly tell what parts were filmed on a sound stage, as the backgrounds are blatently fake, no effort was put into them.  
 
Will Ferrell plays Buddy, an adult elf. The whole plot is basically that he snuck into Santas toy bag as a baby, wound up at the north pole, and was raised by elves. He comes to find out he has a father, played by James Caan, and goes on a journey to New York in search of him. That's the entire plot right there.  
 
I'm not going to bother spelling out what happens in the movie because enough people mentioned it already.  
 
The purpose of my review is for adults that think its a comedy and want to check it out. I regret ever seeing it. Almost every "funny" part is in the previews. Here are the funny parts: he drinks an entire 2 liter of coke and lets out a 30 second (or so) belch; a scene where he tries to put a star on top of the christmas tree and it comes crashing down on him; he attacks a fake Santa at a store because its not the real Santa. Yep, there you have it, those are the funny parts. No really, stop laughing.  
 
There is no bad language at all, nothing derogatory, no put downs, nothing sexual. I'm actually surprised Disney didn't make this movie since Disney movies aren't funny and geared towards kids.  
 
The plot is pathetically weak and totally predictable. It's one of those Ernest Saves Christmas type movies. After watching this flick, I will never watch Will Ferrell again. He's just NOT funny. In fact, if I were him, I would be ashamed of myself for signing such a horrible contract and agreeing to make a lame movie like this.  
 
Ok... so anything positive about this movie? No, not really. Actors are brain dead, rely on childish type humor to make the audience laugh, and you don't do a very good job convincing the audience even for a moment that this is a fantasy flick.  
 
I'm sure children would like it, as its geared strictly for them. Adults who like clean humor and Disney type not funny movies will probably like this. It's a completely disconnect the brain, plan on wasting some money and a few hours of your life, and go see it.  
 
I don't recommend this to anybody looking for a serious laugh, or even a little bad language.  
 
Obviously this is just my opinion, I don't expect others to feel this way, but if you like adult humor, decent acting, a movie with a plot, and a believeable movie set, then avoid this movie like the plague.  
 
If you have seen it and disagree with me, to each his own.  
 
 
