Plot Details: This opinion reveals major details about the movie's plot.  
So relieved Bad Santa had a happy compromising ending. What with the main character, Willie Stokes (Billy Bob Thornton) being a cussing, boozing, womanizing, thieving, insulting “Santa” it would be a let down if it didn’t have a happy ending.  
 
Picture a man who was abused as a child growing up to be a “fake” Santa in order to rob the department store safe and expensive clothing, which is fenced. Then taking off for Florida for a few months until the winter holiday restarts. That’s Willie and his elf partner in crime, Marcus (Tony Cox), a 3 foot Black dwarf. Marcus tries to keep Willie in line just long enough to pull off the big score. After that he’s done with Willie and doesn’t want to see him again until the next Holiday season when they start up posing as Santa and his elf. Willie is the worst Santa. He insults the kids (“Whadya want” “Okay, get outta here”) and arrives at work drunk.  
 
When they venture to Arizona with their act, Store Manager John Ritter thinks he’s got a salary break: two for one. He soon becomes suspicious of the two when he catches Willie using foul language in front of the kids and fornicating with a female clerk. The store detective (Bernie Mac) is consulted, and starts to investigate their past. When he figures out what they’re doing – robbing the store – he wants a cut of the loot.  
 
Thankfully, there is a charming kid, Thuman Merman (portly cherubic Brett Kelly) who believes in Willie and adopts him as a surrogate dad. (I won’t reveal where the real dad is) No matter how awfully Willie talks to the kid, he so desperately wants a male figure he accepts Willie for what he is. There’s an attractive barmaid (Lauren Graham) who has a fetish for Santas and has fun as Willie’s sex mate. If these characters weren’t so unbelievably funny they would be implausible.  
 
Everything that’s politically incorrect (alcohol binging, swearing, loud-mouth insults) is there. Leave your purity and religiosity at home.  
 
Billy Bob Thornton is such a versatile actor. He played character-driven supporting roles and now he’s lead in a black comedy. With a scruffy unshaven beard and a slouching body, his makes Willie memorable although unfavorably. He and Tony Cox demonstrate perfect comic timing as crime buddies. Brett Kelly plays the kid with such sympathy and earnestness you want to throw him a teddy bear for comfort.  
 
You will laugh when you don’t want to laugh and feel embarrassed for doing so.  
