Plot Details: This opinion reveals major details about the movie's plot.  
I will not rest until I get the word out this is one of the best movies out for 2003! It is not quite perfect, but is the only film I've seen since X2 that succeeds on almost every level it set out to attain.  
 
As I'm not the first review here, everyone should know the story by now. Cruise is a Civil War hero who drowns his sins liquor every chance he can from the atrocities he has seen and done to the Native Americans. He gets hired to train a new "western" style army for the Emperor of Japan, but gets captured after a failed first attempt at defeating the Samurai rebellion. From there...you'll just have to see the movie!  
 
Honestly I have been looking forward to this movie for about a year. I forced my reluctant wife (who had no interest) to see it, and she left the theatre happily surprised. For me who had such high expectations this did not disappoint.  
 
The story, I must say, is fictional. So please disregard all those 'not historically correct' complaints you may read. The director has said upfront they tried to be extremely accurate on all things for that era, but the story is not a true one. Yes it does have its predictable moments, but for me this did not distract from enjoying an epic tale.  
 
Costumes will win an Oscar. These are by far the most exquiste creations I've seen all year. Of course I'm talking about the Samurai armor first and foremost. Although we see Cruise's on all the promotional material, his is not the best you've seen yet.  
 
Acting wise, Cruise stays on top of his game, no I don't think it is "Oscar-worthy" despite the amount of training he did for the role, but he really hasn't been better. My 3 favorite performances of his were from Jerry Maguire, Minority Report, and Interview with the Vampire, and this movie falls right in line. He does perform a good character transition from his tortured past to his appreciation and earnest learning of the Samurai way.  
Many of the other supporting characters were also very good, but I could see Ken Watanabe being nominated as he delivers a wide range from a warrior's strength to a father's compassion.  
 
There were plenty of masterfully crafted (physical) special effects, but were there any visual effects? I honestly couldn't say. Yes, most certainly, but they are so well conceived I felt I've seen the first action (epic)movie that looked entirely real and natural....in a long time.  
 
How can I not be blow away from the intense battle scenes! We have Samurai in full gear fighting, we have Ninjas! (Yes as lethal as you can imagine.) Never have you seen the Samurai sword wielded with such amazing skill...by everyone in this film. The choreography of these fights (especially the opening attack and Ninja raid) are breathtaking.  
 
Actually as "cool" as this can be, the grisly deaths should leave you feeling a bit uneasy about what it means to kill another person and how utterly horrible war can be and the devestation it leaves, unless you're completely de-sensitized.  
 
Last but not least I shouldn't forget to mention the gorgeous cinematagraphy and score. Here we see more, and new beautiful venues of the New Zealand. I truly believe I was looking at ancient Japan, as it once was. If anything go see the movie just to witness its jaw-dropping landscapes!  
 
I am a big fan of Hans Zimmer as I have both his Black Hawk Down and Gladiator scores. He does such a well job of blending in the grand with the eclectic you always get something new for each endeavor. Here will be the next soundtrack I purchase. For the first time in awhile I actually experienced the music in a film as much as the film itself. The main theme had the spirit of a Gladiator or Last of the Mohicans, but obviously with a Far East influence. It was a lush, rich, emotionally charged piece of music.  
 
 
 
The one caveat I had is the ending. It lost the movie momentum, felt wishy-washy and rushed to clear up all possible lose ends of the story. The writers didn't know how to properly close it so they stamped it with the all too typical "hollywood hero" end.  
 
Spoiler. Skip ahead now!  
Begin Rant...  
 
How ridiculous is it every Samurai gets killed on the battlefield except Algren, especially when they let loose the heavy artillery on the charging Samurai. Pretty lame the way he only gets hit a few times, and I would say minor recoverable wounds at best, in relation to every other warrior getting riddled with lethal hits.  
 
End Rant...  
End Spoiler  
 
Regardless of a couple faults this is one of the most beautifully shot, emotionally-invested, incredibly detailed movie of the year.  
 
 
Reviewers Note: I would give it 4 1/2 stars if I was allowed, 1/2 star deduction for the ending.  
 
Edited (12/12/03) to correct the mistakes in my rant after a 2nd viewing.  
