Dear Calphalon®  
We regret to inform you of the demise of your product. I hope you can take comfort in the fact that it performed bravely under adverse conditions……..  
In our household, the cooking and clean-up chores fall mainly upon me, THE MAN . you know, the one who throws everything into the dishwasher. I don't complain about this chore, it's the hand washing that bothers me. I mean, why have a dishwasher if you can't wash the dishes in it. I can tell you, this has been the subject of many conversations in our house.  
My better half claimed that she would hand wash any Calphalon® cookware, but after three days, I figured it was either throw it in the dishwasher, or succumb to the science experiment that had formed in the dregs of the Spanish rice. In the dishwasher with you, I muttered. ……  
"Honey, did you put this pot in the dishwasher?" This was the first indication that maybe; just maybe I was busted. "Give me a minute, I need to see a man about a horse" There, that might stall her, take a magazine in with me.  
Grunt…..read…finished…flush …..wash…..Open door  
"Honey, did you put this pot in the dishwasher?" damn 30 minutes wasted. " Um, er, um yes I did". Would you like to see why I asked you not to put it in? It wasn't the peeled and beaded non-stick surface that bothered me, it was the look in her eyes, like I had just eaten the last Reese's miniature without asking her if she wanted it first.  
I will admit, this cookware was fantastic, I mean, nothing stuck to it. It has a nice weight, attractive in appearance and truth be told, hand cleanup is a breeze (of course, she is the one who washes? it). At least it was, now it just takes up space. You see, I am afraid to use it now. I just don't like to see disappointment in her eyes, and I am stuck using the same three pots, over and over and over.  
I can recommend this product to the household that does not own a dishwasher, or the single female. But if you have a flesh eating, beer swilling, belching male in the household, DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT at least not if you want to keep it around as more than an expensive paperweight.  
I used to own a restaurant, and for the same amount of money, we will be able to outfit our kitchen in stainless steel cookware and I will be able to do the dishes without feeling guilty (yes I do feel guilty now, imagine).  
 
In closing, Mrs. Calphalon®, please take comfort in the fact that your product performed above and beyond the call of duty, and I was proud to serve (carrots, spinach and even potatoes) with it. If I can be of further assistance, feel free to contact me. Until then , I am sincerely Yours Briansdad Dept. of Destructio 
