Like popcorn? If so you’ll love (let me repeat that emphatically, LOVE) Whirley Pop.  
 
My husband and I were given the Whirley Pop for Christmas. Honestly, we hadn’t been munching much on popcorn recently because my tiny microwave was on the fritz and refused to work on microwave popcorn. The Whirley Pop entered our lives just in time.  
 
Manufactured by Monon, Indiana-based Wabash Valley Farms, the Whirley Pop can be purchased in three sizes… 4 quart, 6 quart, and 8 quart. We were fortunate to have been given the 6 quart popper. The popper looks very similar to a small crock pot with a shiny silver finish and flip-top. The pot itself is dishwasher safe, while the top can be easily removed and should be washed by hand (it’s got wooden handles).  
 
The best thing about the Whirley Pop is just how easy it is to use. You may think that that microwave popcorn is a cinch. Well, check this out. The Whirley Pop makes twice the amount of popcorn in less than five mines. Instead of using the microwave, you use your stove set on medium to medium high. Simply add at least at least one teaspoon of oil (at most half a cup) and your popcorn (1/2 cup at most) and crank the handle until the popcorn is done popping.  
 
Voila! Six quarts of sumptuous theater style popcorn!  
 
But the fun part is that you can try different recipes and experiment with different oils and salt-based seasonings. As long as you don’t do anything too strange, your popcorn will turn out perfectly. The manual that accompanies the Whirley Pop suggests canola, coconut, peanut, and olive oil among others. Salt-based seasonings are readily available at the local supermarket in addition to pre-measured packets available at the Wabash Valley Farms website. Popcorn can be purchased via that site, or for a better price at the local grocery.  
 
Whirley Pop is easy for children to use, but they must be monitored at all times as popcorn is hot and stoves are even hotter.  
 
The Whirley Pop is inexpensive and easy to use when compared to air poppers and other electric popcorn poppers. At just $25 or so, this unique appliance can be yours. Personally, I intend on purchasing this as a wedding gift when friends get married. Without a doubt, they won’t be returning the Whirley Pop. It’s uniquely fun and makes the best popcorn you can imagine. As an added bonus, it also works over a camp stove.  
 
Wabash Valley Farms website: http://www.wfarms.com/  
Whirley Pop Recipes: http://wfarms.com/lib/wfarms/FreeRecipes.htm  
 
