It all started some 20 years ago. My dad bought his mother-in-law, my Nana, a big shiny fry pan. He bought the best the store had to offer and that was All-Clad. It was a smart buy then, and remains one today.  
 
That big sucker of a fry pan somehow ended up in my house along the way. It now hangs prominently in my kitchen. Not merely as a coveted heirloom, but as a trusty pan that sees action at least four times a week. Little scratched, little grimy along the rivets, but it still cooks like nobody's business!  
 
When I first got married, I made a HUGE mistake. At the time, the buzz word in kitchen must-haves was Calphalon. I received a whole set of those pots and pans, and quickly grew to hate them. The pans pitted from accidental cycles in the dishwasher, and the handles were very hot and awkward. I bought the cleaner specified for them, but that just became a chore. I've heard that they've improved some since I purchased mine, but you can't pay me to own those ugly coal colored pots again. Utilitarian doesn't have to equal ugly.  
 
Once I threw out my last Calphalon, I knew that All-Clad had my business. The company didn't have to wow me with flashy ads, and I didn't have to read any reviews (gasp). As long as the new generation had the same heft and same workmanship as my old one, I was sold.  
 
Just as Good as the Relic  
 
I have owned my 9 piece set of All-Clad stainless for a year now. As I had hoped, the shiny stainless exterior has a mirror like finish that comes out of the dishwasher looking glorious, and unlike the Calphalon, hasn't deteriorated (pitted) in any way. I know I haven't had the set for that long, but I don't expect the same troubles that I had with my Calphalon. The composition is quite different.  
 
My set included:  
 
10" Fry Pan  
2 Quart Sauce Pan with Lid  
3 Quart Casserole with Lid  
3 Quart Saute Pan with Lid  
6 Quart Stock Pot with Lid- I love it. Short and fat.  
 
From international-gourmet.net....  
 
"The Collection features a magnetic stainless exterior that is safe for both conventional and induction ranges. The cooking surface is hand-polished 18/10 stainless steel that will not react with food. The inner core is pure aluminum not just at the bottom, but all the way up the sides. All three layers are bonded together for optimum heat conductivity. The long, stay-cool handles, non-corrosive rivets, and sure-fitting lids are all of gleaming stainless."  
 
Why I Chose the Stainless  
 
Short Story: Dishwasher safe  
 
Long Story: If you've been shopping around, you may already know that All-Clad is available in four collections: Stainless Steel, Cop-R-Chef, LTD aluminum, and Master Chef.  
 
I did court the Copper version, but was worried about the upkeep of the material. Copper needs to be polished and retinned. Frankly, I'm not ready for that kind of commitment.  
 
The LTD just wreaked of Calphalon. It has that anodized coal colored exterior that I just couldn't bear to see again. It isn't dishwasher friendly either.  
 
The Master Chef has a brushed aluminum exterior that lacks the glorious shiny appeal of the Stainless. Lo and behold, you can't dishwasher this variety either.  
 
**Stainless it is.**  
 
Important Ditties:  
 
-dishwasher safe  
 
-goes from range to oven thanks to heavy duty handles and rivets (try to do that with a plastic handled pot)  
 
-handles stay *quite cool even on long simmers (*you may need a cloth from time to time)  
 
-mirror finish looks spectacular in a gourmet setting  
 
-love the fit of the recessed lids  
 
-sides of pans make flipping easy  
 
-heavy, yes, but any quality pot is. HONEST. These are not grocery store quality throw-aways  
 
-stainless finish can take a thorough scouring when needed and will come back for more. Even 20 years later  
 
**Buying these does not ensure that you will be a culinary genius, but it can't hurt. You only go around once. Buy quality.**  
 
P.S You still need one of those cheap throwaways for scrambled eggs. Trust me on that one. Who said teflon doesn't have it's place??  
 
Eat, and be merry.  
 
GF  
 
 
