Let me start by making two things very clear. I LOVE POPCORN AND I LOVE MY WHIRLEY POPCORN POPPER! OK, I bought this popper about six months ago and it was love at first batch. I just finished popping a batch and I am eating it as I write this review. This popcorn is GOOD! It’s so easy to make great popcorn with this popper. If you follow the simple directions that are included, you’ll make flawless popcorn every time you use this popper. That’s right, no more burnt popcorn and almost no more un-popped kernels.  
 
This is a very high heat popper. It’s made of thin aluminum that conducts quickly. There’s a snap on lid that’s hinged down the middle to allow one side to flip open so that popped corn can be poured out . The lid has four small incisions that allow steam to escape during popping. This keeps the popcorn crisp and prevents it from becoming too chewy. During popping, this baby really gets hot and it should not be used by children who have not reached their teen years (in my opinion). There is a wooden for holding the popper and it stays pretty cool at all times. There are two small wooden knobs on each side of the lid that also stay pretty cool.  
 
Now the thing that really helps this popper make great popcorn is the hand turned paddle. At the end of the wooden pot handle there’s a metal crank that has a small wooden knob on it. When the first kernels of popcorn begin to pop, you have to slowly turn this crank. This crank turns a gear driven, wire paddle inside of the popper. The wire paddle (wand) keeps the popcorn moving and prevents it from sticking to the bottom of the popper. This prevents the popcorn from burning and it gets ever kernel to contact the bottom and pop. It’s really a very simple but effective mechanism.  
 
There are several different methods of popping but a standard method is to put the oil in the popper and then get it hot before adding the popcorn kernels. The amount and kind of oil to use is strictly dependant upon personal taste and preference. I have found a place locally that sells pre-packaged corn and popping oil that works beautifully with this popper and it’s delicious. Corn popped in this popper is much better than microwave popcorn. It’s less greasy, no preservatives, and much healthier. Pop up a batch, light up the big screen, pop in a good movie, and it’s show time! Oh, I forgot the Miller Light. Can’t forget that.  
 
Clean up is very easy. The popper lid snaps off and the paddle comes out when the lid is removed. All of the parts are dish washer safe and they can be easily washed by hand with warm soapy water. One very minor thing to watch out for is; if you use a fair amount of oil to pop, very tiny droplets of hot oil do escape through the lid and they can sting your hand while you’re turning the crank. A cooking mitt or some kind of hand protection would be good, especially for anyone who has sensitive skin.  
