An All-Clad Stainless Steel Set is worth its weight in gold, and though you might consider it about as costly, it is well worth the investment. It is truly a "guilty pleasure" when considering the price you might pay in respect to the delights it holds, once you get it out of the box and onto your range. You don't have to take a chance on All-Clad. Instead, you can put trust in it (along with your food) for all of your cooking needs.  
 
 
 
Mismatched, Bargain Basement, Re-Gifted Cookware Steels Me for Making a Decision (and a "Going out of Business" Sale Makes It Easier)  
 
I began my kitchen career (I am an amateur) at my mother's elbow. I admired her copper-bottomed Revereware from my earliest recollections, and hoped I would have a set of it one day. It looked beautiful, and my mother's cooking was always delicious.  
 
Well, now I know my mom is really good, because I got my set of Revereware (from her and Dad as a wedding gift) and I used it for years, scraping and scrubbing at scorched spots, soaking and slaving over baked-on scraps and generally wondering how she managed to keep her cookware looking good, and wondering even more how she turned out great food.  
 
I supplemented my Revereware with odds and ends from sales at department stores and sometimes received gifts from good-intentioned givers . . . finding a card in the wrappings to the giver from someone else is quite an interesting occurrence. Nice, uh . . . thought?  
 
After several years, I had quite an eclectic collection, none of which I could call "favorites". I tolerated my cookware. I used it, but I did not enjoy it. Not a good thing for someone who loves to cook and experiment with ingredients and recipes.  
 
 
How All-Clad Slipped into My Cabinets  
 
Okay, I'll admit it. My first All-Clad purchase was a big one (set-wise). A local kitchen store advertised a closing sale, and I went to look at the leftovers.  
 
Color me stainless . . . there was a 9-Piece All-Clad Stainless set sitting in a corner for the rock bottom price of $275. At the time, I knew little about the pricing, but figured this was a pretty good deal (what an understatement!). Turned out to be more than 50% off of the retail price. It's always nice to have your guilty pleasure at cut-rate cost.  
 
And slip into my cabinet it did. I was consumed with guilt for making the purchase, because Husband of Mine, as considerate as he is, sees no logic in spending hundreds of dollars on pots and pans. Don't we already have some? They work, don't they? Why buy new ones?  
 
This question does not apply in reverse, when implying that his sports card collection grows in leaps and bounds and "don't 'we' already have one of that guy?" The same rules don't apply.  
 
So, my 9-piece set of All-Clad remained a truly hidden guilty pleasure for several weeks while I worked up the courage to reveal it. How can it be a guilty pleasure if you don't use it? Heck, I found pleasure in simply knowing it was there and knowing it would make a difference in my kitchen . . . also, I removed a piece or two to admire and "practice" while the "Cat" was away . . .  
 
 
Revealing the Objects/NNPS|VBZ of My Guilt  
 
I admitted my guilt under the guise of preparing Husband's favorite meal on our gas range: Chicken Parmesan.  
 
The idea for unveiling my guilty pleasure was rather last-minute, and the 9-Piece All-Clad Stainless set just seemed to present itself in filling out the menu. I made use of every single one of the nine pieces for this fabulous dinner, and it was fabulous for several reasons, not including the finished product, which I'll detail as I go along.  
 
 
I turned up the flame under the 10" Fry Pan to pan-fry the breaded chicken filets for this dish. When I dropped a bit of water into the pan and droplets jumped out, I added the filets and watched them brown nicely, evenly and expertly . . . all I had to do was turn them once and watch. I didn't have to hang onto the pan handle for dear life to turn the chicken, either. The pan "let go" of the food easily (pre-heating helps this effect -- better than non-stick). When I did touch the handle to remove the pan from the heat it was still room temperature, after almost 15 minutes on medium-high heat, thanks to the stay-cool handle.  
 
Most amazing for me was that I didn't have to promenade the chicken around the pan to get each piece cooked evenly without one browning too quickly and the others not enough. I'm surprised I remembered to continue with the remaining elements of the meal, as awed as I was with this experience. Into the oven with the 10" Fry Pan to keep warm (All-Clad stainless is oven-safe, lids, too!).  
 
A few servings of sugar snap peas had the honor of simmering for several minutes in the 2-Quart Sauce Pan w/ Lid, before being slotted-spooned away to a serving bowl with a bit of butter. I found that medium-low heat kept the water at a simmer, just on this side of boiling.  
 
The 3-Quart Sauté Pan w/Lid expertly sautéed onion, celery, green pepper and garlic for the thick sauce Husband has come to expect with this meal. In order to simmer and reduce the sauce a bit, knowing I was on the clock, I made use of the wide, flat expanse of the sauté pan rather than a larger pot requiring more cooking time for the same results. Larger pan, more heat. Right? Nope. The sauce simmered nicely, uncovered on low. A stir now and then was all the work. No scorching, no hot spots, just thickening sauce.  
 
I had the pasta water on to boil and covered until just before serving time in the 6-Quart Stock Pot w/Lid. Ten minutes before serving dear Husband of Mine "The Meal", I popped the pasta in the pot and let it roll . . . the only down side to this piece of equipment is that I did not have a pasta insert (still don't . . . maybe soon?)!  
 
Now, because Husband of Mine isn't always the most observant of men and might not notice the gleaming All-Clad on the stove top when passing through the kitchen to the dining room, I made use of the 3-Quart Casserole w/lid(8" X 3") on this occasion as a serving piece -- layering pasta, sauce, chicken and cheese in it, placing the lid on and delivering it to the table as a functional centerpiece. Also, I needed a "story-starter" to introduce the newest additions to our family.  
 
 
You Said a Mouthful  
 
Well, dear Husband made his way to the table, sat, and looked over the offering before him. I, opposite him and nervous, yet giddy with my newfound "Superb, Efficient, Conspicuous Restaurant Equipment Treasury" (SECRET, for short), gazed hopefully at him . . .  
 
Nothing.  
 
I removed the lid from the casserole . . . the shining, stainless, brand-new All-Clad casserole, adding a flourish and cocking the lid against the salt and pepper shakers so that my mate could see his reflection in it if he so desired.  
 
Still nothing.  
 
We went about filling our plates and I tried to be nonchalant. Clearly I pulled it off, because aside from a comment about how much he enjoys Chicken Parmesan, Husband of Mine seemed not to notice a thing and was his usual silent self.  
 
Toward the last few bites, he did say, "This is really good. And it's always good . . but this is better."  
 
That's all I needed to hear.  
 
 
 
How Much Did We Save?  
 
Weeks later -- months, actually, after enjoying the company of my 9-Piece All-Clad Stainless set in the kitchen, turning out better-than-before versions of everything in my repertoire not only easier but with a completely different and more controlled feel in the process, Husband noticed the 3-Quart Sauté Pan w/Lid.  
 
He walked into the kitchen as I put together my "Saturday Scramblette" (it changes names, depending on the day of the week), stopped in his tracks and said,  
 
"When did we get that?" casting a wary eye on the sauté pan.  
 
"Months ago," I replied innocently.  
 
"Oh. How much did we save on this particular purchase?" he returned, a little snidely.  
 
I told a partial truth, "A little less than $300."  
 
He continued on his way, and never asked again. I either confused him or impressed him. If I want to know which, I'll have to divulge my SECRET to him, and I won't have this guilty pleasure to hold dear any longer.  
 
 
I'll Let You in On the SECRET  
 
All-Clad stainless steel cookware is many things in the kitchen: solid, high-performance, sturdy, oven-proof, versatile, and beautiful. Hide it if you have to or hang it on a rack for all to see -- which I would if my long, narrow kitchen would allow it. We're planning to remodel one of these days . . . I wonder if local contractors have ever planned kitchens around cookware before?  
 
Each piece of All-Clad comes with a lifetime warranty against manufacturer's defects. I have not had to make use of the warranty, and can't imagine needing to do so.  
 
The stay-cool (and they do stay cool on the stove top) handles are double-riveted to the sides of each piece, as are handles on the lids, and each piece (pot, skillet or pan -- any piece that may rest on a heat source) is of three-ply construction: a core of aluminum (to conduct even, lasting heat) coated on both sides by polished stainless steel for beauty, ease of cleaning and non-reactivity with all foods. Everything about this cookware says "solid". And the lids (one for each pot and pan except for the 10" skillet in this set) are made of solid stainless steel, too. Great stuff, All-Clad.  
 
And when you lift a piece of it, you'll know it. The long, angled handles of the All-Clad sauce pan and sauté pan balance perfectly with the weight of the pans themselves. This means they have good "heft". I'll vouch for that. My Revereware had no heft, or at the most, unmeasurable heft -- meaning that anytime I filled a pot with food, I had to do some work to hold the pot at the right angle to keep from spilling it when moving from the stove to the table or counter. I could never get enough strength in my forearms to cart food-laden vessels with handles around the kitchen without clutching the handle with two hands or gripping the other side of the pot none-too-gracefully.  
 
Large pieces, like the 3-quart sauté pan offer a loop handle opposite the long handle, for carrying convenience. Nice touch, and very helpful, especially when pouring sauce from the pan to a platter or bowl.  
 
 
Cleaning? No Secrets Here  
 
Feel free to place All-Clad Stainless in the dishwasher, or if you prefer, as I do, hand wash it in the sink. Regular dishwashing liquid and a soft cloth will work just fine. If you find something baked on, a simple soaking should allow easy removal. Plastic scouring pads are fine for use, but do not use an abrasive cleaning pad or cleanser. Not only do you not need them, they will dull the finish of the cookware. If you find a trouble spot, or want to polish up your All-Clad set to its original luster, break out a can of "Bar Keeper's Friend" (BKF). A gently cleanser, BKF buffs the surface of the stainless steel, eliminating possible stains and restoring the gleam to your cookware. It works like magic (and removes rust, should you have any rust-prone gadgets in your kitchen -- All-Clad WON'T rust!).  
 
Should you accidentally leave a pot or pan on the heat too long and come back to a scorched panful of food, empty what you can, fill the pot with water and a few teaspoonfuls of baking soda and set the water to boil. Allow a full boil for a few minutes and the scorched food should come away from the pan quite easily. No kidding. This happened to me when making a boiled icing base a few years ago. I doubted that blackened flour and milk would give up easily, but the mess literally peeled away from the sides and bottom of the pan with this method.  
 
 
Don't Keep It to Yourself, Unless You Want To  
 
Though Husband of Mine is enlightened about All-Clad, he doesn't buy it. He doesn't cook, so he can't appreciate the comparison between my old cookware and All-Clad, and he doesn't purchase pieces for me because he doesn't know what price is good or what piece might be best to add next.  
 
I've offered to make him a list, in order of "need" . . .  
 
His unwillingness to supply my guilty pleasure lets me still feel "secretive" about All-Clad, going about admiring pieces in stores with a wistful look and a hopeful gleam in my eye . . . wondering when I might smuggle home this or that (after paying at the register, of course).  
 
What will make it's way, under wraps, to my kitchen remains to be seen, but rest assured, it will be nothing short of All-Clad. Time and Kitchen Tested and Guilty-Pleasure-Enjoying Mom Approved.  
 
 
 
~~Saturday Scramblette~~  
Serves 4-6  
 
1 lb. roll sausage, browned and drained  
2 Tbsp. oil  
4 medium russet potatoes, washed and cubed  
1 medium onion, chopped  
2 cloves garlic, minced  
1/2 green pepper, chopped (optional)  
1/2 - 1 c. water  
1-1/2 c. grated cheddar cheese  
8 eggs, beaten  
salt and pepper  
 
Heat the All-Clad 3-quart Sauté Pan over medium-high flame. Add sausage and brown, breaking it into bite-sized pieces. Drain fat and remove sausage to side bowl. Add potatoes to the skillet with the oil, browning lightly on all sides. Salt and pepper to taste. Just before finished, add onion and sauté with potatoes. Add garlic and pepper (opt.), and sauté until tender.  
 
Add enough water to make ingredients moist. Cover and reduce heat to cook potatoes through without scorching (medium to low).  
 
When potatoes are tender, return sausage to the pan and add beaten egg and grated cheese. Add salt and pepper to taste. Fold eggs and cheese into the mixture and continue to fold until eggs are set.  
 
Serve hot with toast, biscuits or bagels.  
 
Excellent reheated.  
 
ENJOY!  
