I woke up one morning with one thought ... I am 35 years old, a good cook, and it's high time I bought a REAL set of cookware. A full set, and, yes, if need be, an expensive set! Luckily, I could further justify my purchase with two facts: one, it was Mother's Day, and I am a mother; two, I ran a home daycare at the time, and could write it off as a business expense!  
 
Feeling uncharacteristically decadent, I set of to the chicly overpriced Williams Sonoma, giddy with the thought of putting all my old, dilapidated cookware out to pasture to make room for the shiny new.  
 
The sales lady was matronly, kind, and almost frighteningly astute about the many different types of cookware they offered. I had my eye on the copper, which was the most expensive. She discouraged me at once, agreeing it was the most beautiful, but... the polishing.... I'd be sorry, she said. Oh. Having gained my trust by steering me away from the big sale, I was now ready to take her every word as gospel. "I like the clear lids on these," I said of another set. Wrong again. She said, "Clear lids make no sense since, well, putting a lid on cooking food causes steam, and steam is hard to see through." I'd be sorry. Oh.  
 
I looked around hopelessly... the other choices seemed so boring, or worse, gray and ugly. I sighed heavily. "Guess I'll just go for practicality, then", I said,"what about these non-stick babies over here?" Her face grew dark and her brow furrowed with concern as she pointed out that even the best non-stick cookware ( and hers was the best, of course ) just wasn't very sturdy in terms of the cooking surface. And it required a fleet of gentle, special utensils, and if I had teenagers, they would scrape the surface with the nearest ( un-gentle and un-special ) utensil, and ... I'd be sorry. Oh.  
 
And then I saw them... the All Clad, beaming at me, nay, beckoning me from the far wall. Stylishly minimalist looking...I liked that. Aluminum core with stainless steel food surface... that was a good thing, too, since my husband is convinced that cooking on aluminum surfaces causes Alzheimer's.  
 
Afraid to say anything this time, I merely caressed a fry pan hopefully while waiting for my guru's verdict. And just as I began to wonder if she somehow got an extra bonus for NOT selling cookware to woefully inexperienced, unworthy candidates, she beamed back at the beaming All Clad and said, simply, " Yes. Oh Yes, these are... well, they're just wonderful. You will never need to buy another set of cookware. You won't be sorry. Oh, no, you'll be GLAD for these in your kitchen."  
 
And to boot, they just happened to be on "sale"...  
a DELUXE "extended" 'All Clad Stainless' set for a mere $560.00. This included 2 fry pans (one very large with a lid), a stock pot with lid, a sauce pan (small pot, very handy) with lid, and a 3 piece double boiler, (steamer) my personal favorite. Since they were throwing in the extra smaller fry pan, that made TEN pieces in all, including lids the way they do. I personally think counting the lid as a 'piece' is sort of a stretch, don't you?... kind of like trying to count one's dog as a dependent at tax time.  
 
Anyway, my set did not include the piece shown in the photo for this category, so i figure since the time I purchased my 'Stainless' set, they must have taken out a piece and replaced it with the pasta insert. Or maybe they just chose any pretty piece of ALL CLAD Stainless for the photo, even if it isn't in the set. Who knows.  
 
Even given the extra pan I'd be getting, the price seemed a bit ludicrous, even in my self-indulgent frame of mind. I mean, we were talking about pots and pans, for god's sake. My husband's face looked a little greenish and moist. I vaguely recall him stammering something about being able to buy quite competent cookware elsewhere for a lot less. But I didn't trust him. I trusted HER. And over two years later, I'm not sorry. Here's why:  
 
PROS:  
 
Downright elegant looking... very streamlined / modern looking  
Heavy and solid; well crafted, durable (no warping)  
Heats evenly  
Cleans super easy if you don't stick or burn food  
All pieces can go into the oven!!! I love this.  
Stays shiny with a little TLC  
Long handles that stay COOL!!!  
LIFETIME Warranty  
 
CONS:  
 
It's important to note that the makers of ALL CLAD say that because of this product's aluminum core and excellent conductivity, it is never necessary to use high heat to cook or brown foods. This is true, but requires a little patience. Because if you don't remember to refrain from cooking on high, food WILL stick if you're frying, even with oil spray or butter. But if you're patient and cook on medium, you CAN fry beautifully in these pans.  
 
Food cooking surface will show very mild scratch marks and slight rainbow colored haziness if you use metal cooking utensils regularly, or of you scrub too hard or burn something. This is mortifying!... like getting that first scuff mark on a black suede purse. It can be helpful to call a friend to help "talk you down" when the first scratch occurs.  
 
Says "dish washer safe" in the insert info, and their web site says that's O.K. for their Stainless line, but their recommended cleaning method is with a low-abrasive cleanser called "Bar Keeper's Friend," which also supposedly removes any of that 'cloudy rainbow' discoloration that can crop up over time if high heat is used. I use "Bon Ami" cleaner, also a low abrasion brand, and I hand wash my set to try to preserve the high polish shine. I have to admit, hand washing is a little inconvenient. But all things that last ( wether it's a great marriage or a great fry pan) require a little extra care... so all said, she was right...I'm glad I got Clad.  
 
