I guess it is only befitting that since I wrote a review about a potato masher that I should write about the companion piece that usually goes along with it hand and hand.  
 
When purchasing a peeler I always try to look for something with a handle that if large enough to grip and not cut into the palms of your hand when you are using it.  
 
I have tried the Ecco but they are so very uncomfortable as the handle is made of a thin wire that does cut in to the palms of your hand and the blade is hard to control.  
 
When I was in Wal-Mart one day I discovered the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler quite by accident. I had ground my old Ecco peeler in the garbage disposal by accident and needed something to replace it.  
 
I saw the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler hanging on the display and thought I would give it a try.  
 
The Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler says it is made of steel but there is a major difference between it and the Ecco. The handle of the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler is quite large and made out of a rubber so that when your hands are wet it doesn't seem to slide around nearly as much. That makes your peeling time less and your hands feel more comfortable and not nearly as fatigued.  
 
If you are looking for something shiney like the Ecco then I suggest that you stick with Ecco as this peeler isn't it. It has brushed steel so that leaves the shine out.  
 
The blade itself it made of steel and has not rusted on me like the Ecco. I like that a lot since I am not having to replace what seems to be like very other month, in fact I have never replaced the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler since I bought it over a year ago.  
 
When looking at the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler you will see that the blade has a elongated hole right down the middle of it. On either side of the hole there is a blade that you can use so that makes it nice for people that are left handed and right handed.  
 
Also with this blade when scraping vegetables you can go up and down instead of one directions and the blade will catch the skin going both ways. The blade does swivel back and forth for ease of use but doesn't go too far so that you have trouble.  
 
The Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler measures 7 1/4 inches from the top of the blade to the end of the handle. That makes it nice as it isn't too large but large enough to get the job done effectively.  
 
On the end of the blade you will see something that resembles a point, this is what you use to remove the eyes from potatoes or spots from your other vegetables.  
 
Now the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler isn't just for potatoes, you can use it for cucumbers, carrots, zucchini, apples, peaches and whatever fruit or vegetable that is firm and has a very thin skin.  
 
Another thing I like the Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler is you can make chocolate curles for cakes and cupcakes by running the blade down the side of a piece of baking chocolate that has been chilled.  
 
If you are one of these people that prefers to hang thing instead of placing them in the drawer then you are in luck. The Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler does have a hole in the handle for this purpose.  
 
I usually just place mine in the drawer and when the dishwasher is too full I slip the handle over one of the spindles in the dishwasher and let it hang so that way I can get it good and clean.  
 
The clean up is easy, like I said above, just place in the dishwasher and slip into the drawer when done.  
 
The next time you are looking for a peeler give Oxo 7.25" Steel Swivel Peeler a try it's worth the extra $2.00 that you will spend.  
 
Thanks for reading.  
