What a beautiful set! By far, this is the best cookware set I've ever purchased. A tough competitor to, and better value than Calphalon's Stainless.  
 
The special characteristics of this Farberware line is the combination of 18/10 stainless with a mirror-like luster, a Cooper base and long, riveted handles.  
 
Our new stove has high stovetop grates and was adding too much time to cooking (pasta water took 1/2 hour to boil). We decided on FMCC for the good Farberware reputation, and because it offered copper with an aluminum core (called "clad"). This manufacturing process is well established as an excellent heat conduit = even heating with no hot spots. Our FMCC set delivers as promised - even cooking and a noticeable shorter cooking time (pasta water is back to where I was: 12-15 min boil). Cooking is back to a pleasure. The Copper bottom will require some maintenance if you want to retain the beauty. "Noxon" does the trick. I haven't had the set long enough to see how the mirror-like finish will stand up. Stay posted.  
 
Matching stainless lids are cast with a recessed rim for good steaming and basting. Lids are included on most pieces so you won't have to scramble to find a retrofit or open stock piece. Farberware went the extra mile and included nice long handles that are elegantly riveted. A simple Fleur de lis pattern at the rivets is a lovely detail.  
 
This collection is suitable from oven-to-stovetop so you can go from the cook top to oven and keep food warm last minute. Baking/browning is also possible though I would never bake in them myself.  
 
Clean up is good too! Our new home has very hard water making all cleanup a chore I'm not used to. My Calphalon stainless is a nuisance to keep clean within warranty. Unlike Calph, this Farberware set has the recessed rim in the lid which is far more manageable in the sink. Or, if everything goes in your dishwasher, pop your FMCC in - it's safe! The tips included are thorough and very friendly, unlike the competition.  
 
There are 2 sets to choose from: 8 or 10 pieces.  
- The 8 piece had a 1.5 and 3 QT sauce/steamer combo, 6 QT stock pot all with rim-fitted covers, and a 10" open saute (would have loved a lid here too).  
- The 10 piece set adds a 12" covered skillet w/ helper handle, but substitutes an 8 qt. covered stockpot w/ steamer insert for the 6 QT stock pot, and a 2 QT sauce for the 1.5 sauce. None of the substitions are available in open stock so I'm short the 2 QT saucepan- my preferred size for everyday.  
 
I chose the 8 piece set (from Amazon.com with a free XL stainless colander +/SYM free shipping), and purchased another brand 8 QT stockpot to complete my immediate cookware needs. I'm chomping at the bit for the Farberware Copper 12" skillet. That's next!  
 
Farberware comes with a lifetime warranty, and it has always been a "no-questions-asked" replacement policy! I have killed a few Farberware percolators in my day (on 15 hrs/day). But, when I felt it warranted replacement, my percolator was replaced - quickly. Farberware was sold off to a few years ago to Salton* and I have not had a replacement issue since. I hope their past protocol remains.  
*(Salton(R), George Foreman(TM), Toastmaster(R), Breadman(R), Juiceman(R), Juicelady(R), White-Westinghouse(R), Farberware(R), Melitta(R), Welbilt(R), Aircore(R), Russell Hobbs(R), Tower(R), Haden(R) and Pifco(R).  
 
Open stock is limited. I'm hoping they add saucepans and more to open stock soon.  
 
Overall, I'm thrilled!  
