I wrote an earlier opinion on non-stick cookware. I was told by one particular cookware company that non-stick cookware can emit formaldehyde into the air when you cook with it. I had cooked with an expensive set of non-stick cookware for years, and I found this hard to believe. So I did some investigating on the interne, and while some information did confirm this, one manufacturer of non-stick cookware addressed this concern by stating that if nonstick cookware is extremely overheated (as in unattended cookware) the fumes could be deadly to birds. They also suggested not keeping your bird near the kitchen, because their respiratory systems are sensitive.  
 
I am a health nut anyway, and like to avoid breathing irritants like aerosol hairspray, fumes from some cleaning products, some scented candles, etc. So I decided to replace my non-stick cookware.  
 
The Search Was On  
Before I make any large purchases, and I consider a new set of pots and pans an investment and a large purchase, I check out all the brands on the market. I speak with people and see what they use and like, and I read epinions! I kept hearing how people loved their stainless steel pots and pans. I also got out my handy Consumer Reports Buying Guide (I love these guys!) and read what they had to say.  
 
My main choices, if I didn't want non-stick surfaces, were Commercial-style stainless steel, aluminum, copper, cast iron, or tempered glass. I had already owned tempered glass in the past and I didn't like the way everything I cooked seemed to burn on the bottom of the pans. I also had previous experience with aluminum pans with copper bottoms, and the copper was very difficult to keep shiny and new looking and I am wary about the connection between aluminum and Alzheimers (I won't even use deodorant with aluminum in it, why would I cook with it?) And cast iron was out, because the one skillet that I own (just for making my famous biscuits and gravy) has some upkeep to it to keep it rust free. That left stainless steel. So I spoke with a wealthy friend who has the best of everything and asked her what she cooks with ... walla!! - she uses and LOVES stainless steel, with copper sandwiched between the layers of steel.  
 
Which Brand of Stainless Steel Should I Buy  
I found this set on sale and couldn't pass it up. Very similar pans made by Kirkland were available through Costco, but I liked some features of the Cuisinart and felt the brand name was reliable and if I were going to plan on using these pans for the next 30 years I had better find a company that will be around in 30 years (in case something needed to be replaced, my collection added to, etc). This set comes with a stock pot (7 quarts) and two smaller pans - (2 3/4 and 2 qt. sizes) all with lids, and a skillet that uses the lid from one of the pots. I plan on adding to it in the future. I can get a spaghetti cooker, a chafing dish, and other styles to match my collection. In case you aren't aware of it, the lids are considered pieces of the cookware ... they are included in the set - this does not come with 7 pots.  
 
The set is 18/10 stainless steel. The interior has a semi-mirror look to it. The handles are welded onto the pots - they are very sturdy. They can be used in the oven, under the broiler, in the freezer and are dishwasher safe. They also come with a lifetime warranty. Product registration is easy, you can do it right online!  
 
What I Like About This Set  
I absolutely love these pots and pans. It took me a little while to get used to them because I have to cook on a lower heat to avoid burning my food, but they cook wonderful. The copper helps distribute the heat evenly and quickly across the bottom surface, and I have not burned anything yet!  
 
They are absolutely gorgeous to look at! They shine like mirrors! The handles have a nice feel in my hand. I am proud to have them in my cupboards, and feel good about cooking with a material that I think is safer for my family.  
 
They wash nicely in the dishwasher, but since we have hard water and pots and pans come out with spots on them, I choose to wash them by hand instead, and I don't even mind it! They also stack very nicely so they tend to take up less room in my cupboards than my old set did, and that means more room for more pots!! Yeah!  
 
They have a little curved lip on them that makes pouring liquids a cinch! They are MUCH heavier than the non-stick cookware I was using before! This took a little getting used to as well, but I don't mind, I know that the pans are very sturdy and well built! I feel like one of the pro's while using this set!  
 
What I Don't Like  
There's not much I don't like, but I would say that the handles get hotter than the plastic ones I was used to using. But that's okay - I just use a potholder or a towel (I feel like Julia Child) and it isn't a problem at all. They are a little harder to clean, but I use a plastic scrubbie with liquid dish soap and they clean right up. If I do get something that resists cleaning, I add a little soap and water to the pan and let it sit on the stove top on a very low heat for a few minutes, and this seems to help jump start the cleaning process.  
 
I Do Not Regret This Purchase  
I don't regret one penny that I spent on this set of pans. They are beautiful and should last a lifetime.  
