I was really skeptical about putting non-stick cookware on our wedding resgistry; I worried burnt food would create a permanent layer on the pan and I'd have to call my omelettes scrambled eggs. After all, isn't that why they invented teflon-coated cookware in the first place?  
 
Even though, my husband convinced me to get the Cuisinart Everyday Stainless 7-Piece Cookware Set. The 7 pieces are - two saucepanes (one small, one large), a skillet, and a saucepot -- then there are three covers, one cover does double duty. Anyhow, my husband cooks better than I do and he also pointed out that Emeril and a lot of KPBS cooks use the very same stainless pans. OK, I was sold.  
 
I have fallen in love with my Cuisinart Everyday Stainless 7-Piece Cookware Set! First off, the pots and pans are gorgeous ; professional, highly polished steel with lids that are partially glass so you can monitor what's going on inside. The lids are functional too-- they fit tightly over the pots. They're so cool-looking that they're designed for hanging -- like little pieces of kitchen art.  
 
The pans also have a copper layer on the bottoms so they heat evenly; the edges of the pans are as hot as the middle. My omelettes never looked so good. I also like the handles, which are rounded sheets of stainless (except on giant pot, which are more like little solid pipes). They're comfortable to hold on to and never get hot.  
 
They're also easy to clean, even the stuff that gets cooked onto the bottom. Sure, it's not quite as easy as cleaning a teflon pan, but it's a far cry from scrubbing with an industrial strength scrub pad. I usually wash them by hand because I use them so much but you can put them in the dishwasher if you want to.  
 
This was a great investment. The pots and pans are attractive, heat evenly, are easy to clean, and everytime I use them, I pretend like I'm professional chef on TV. Sometimes, when noone's around, I even explain what I'm doing. I might not create gourmet food, but with these pans, I feel like I am!  
 
 
