When me and my husband got married,my new mother in law gave us this set of cookware as a gift to us. She bought herself a set as well as a set for us.  
 
As soon as I pulled the first pot out of the box,I knew I would be happy with this cookware. You can simply look at it and know it's not a set of pots and pans you can get for 20 dollars at Wal-mart,and I think that made me feel good,knowing that I could start my own home and kitchen with something I wouldn't be replacing in a year or so.  
 
While the stainless steel accounts for a couple of burns I've received from my own stupidity,I also think it's one of my favorite things about this set.It just makes it look so clean and attractive and durable. I got a lot of use out of the largest pot for the first year by boiling bottles in it constantly.I don't know what I would have done without it. The pot is large enough to fit even two days or better worth of bottles.  
 
Since the time my son was weaned I've found other uses for it,such as making a big pot of spaghetti or some home made soup,or boiling fresh vegetables,it's large enough to hold any amount with ease.  
 
The smallest of the pots is great for things like macaroni,noodles,and making tea.I think I use this piece more than any other.  
The second largest pot is great for anything,I use it for all my cooking needs,for anything from boiling nipples in the past to gravies and other things.  
The skillet is however still my very favorite piece. It can't be described as anything other than wonderful and useful.  
 
If this were cheap cookware,it would have already proved itself with me. I've forgotten about boiling nipples more than once,and even after that,my cookware still looks brand new.  
 
The only other pot or pan I own outside of this set is a cast iron small skillet my mother passed down for things like pancakes and eggs,and these are all I have needed. I think that if you walked up to me 10 years from now,I would still be using these dishes and if not,another set of the same kind. I absolutely love the quality and durability and wouldn't trade my pots and pans for any other,they're just what I need.  
