I am a travel agent. The Starwood hotels gave us an excellent rate for our hotel room. This hotel is way to big for comfort. We could not afford room service, so maybe this is why we feel this way. We could not afford to avail ourselves to the services. I also did not need a business hotel for my vacation. We drove from the motel 6 in Venice, Fl, 130 miles, to get to use the early Disney Park privledge. When you stay at a Disney hotel you can enter Epcot around 6am, which is much earlier than the general public.  
 
When I approached the check-in desk, after a 130 mile drive, I could see disorganization, and bad manners written all over the check-in persons face. Supposedly the room was not ready yet?? We went I June, which was supposed to be low season? Luckily, we were smart enough to leave our luggage parked in the Alamo rental car. It would have been a long, long haul since we did not opt for valet parking. I was so grateful that I had left the luggage. We eventually, after eating up much of our early park entrance time, boarded the ferry for Epcot. The ferry was wonderful. I could have road all day around the highly commercialized area. We docked at the Epcot entrance gate.  
 
When we returned to the Dolphin, around 1 pm because Epcot in June is Waaaay toooo hot!!! We got a room assignment. It was on the 10th floor, waaaay at the end of the hall. Well I did ask to be away from the ice machines, so becareful what you ask for. I had to literally hike down the hall, and roll my luggage along the carpet. This was a task. The luggage did not roll without resistance. Then when we finally got to the end of the narrow, and hot hall, but quiet, I must say. We had to make a sharp right turn where (2) rooms were. This narrow alcove of a hall was enough to test my claustrophobia. We entered the room and were not at all impressed, and this is coming from a motel 6 room. The bed was non-descript, with an ugly bedspread pattern. The entire room was pastel, and horribly decorated. I am not in to the whimsical look. Give me sturdy natical, and I am happy. The television, which matters not to me, but greatly to our teenager, was a joke. She however, is not too proud to watch any television, because she is an addict. She had to lay on her side to view the tv because straight ahead was our picture window.  
 
The picture window did not have a balcony, so it was better than no view, but definitely not as good as a balcony. Even at the motel 6 we could step right out. The view of Epcot at night was wonderful though. This was complimentary entertainment.  
 
The vanity was long and and nice. We could put our cooler on it, but there was no sink at the vanity. There was a large mirror which did appeal to the vanity of our teenager.  
 
The bathroom did have a very nice vanity, and a large area. The decoration in the bathroom was lovely. Every morning we got nicer tolietries. I still have some of them, but of course we travel with soap, and got this at the motel 6 as well.  
 
I had $10.00 stolen from my jacket pocket, so be wary.  
 
The Dolphin has an honor bar of outrageously priced snacks. There is a plastic locking twisty like they put on shoes in cheap stores. We of course did not touch this. Disney hotels should do away with the honor bar. For goodness sake they collect enough money from the world's life savings purse to comp these Reeses bars and never miss a trick. Or, they should just remove the honor bars from the room and put refrigerators instead.  
 
After every meal time the guest would put their trays out, and we would take the beautiful flowers off the trays and decorate our room with them.  
 
The hike to the beautiful swimming pool area was absurd. It is a wonder people will pay for this long walk. It must kill repeat business. We had to walk through a humongous lobby area wearing our swimmers. I suppose this is a plus if you are in great shape, but I wasn't.  
The swimming pools were very nice and clean, but down the road at the Coronado hotel they have a much better swimming pool. It is more of a social atmosphere than the lap, lane pool that we did enjoy at the Dolphin. We stayed away from the Grotto pool. It was over run with toddlers.  
 
The poolside bar served really good and tasty hamburgers even though it was a bit pricey. It was very convenient and the service was good, or bad depending upon who was serving. It took us forever to get our to go buddle of food. I thought the kitchen had closed and re-opened. That is how long it took.  
 
This hotel is poorly laid out. It took us several days to find the lower level which is where the Krispy Kreme doughnuts, and exercise room is.  
 
Upon check-out the hotel manager wanted to hold a deposit on my credit card. I pitched a fit. I asked him should I hold his towels as a deposit, and return them later? Needless to say the deposit was removed after housekeeping inspected our room. This was not a lovely stay. We much prefer the Starwood Vistana and Oaks Plantation Resorts to the Dolphin. We actually had maid service there.  
