My experience at the W New York disappointed on almost every level. Checking in, there was absolutely no recognition of my platinum status. When I asked about a suite upgrade, I was told that I had been upgraded to a business room but that no suites were available.  
 
I thanked the cast member, walked upstairs and called SPG. They confirmed that suites were available and at my request, they called the hotel manager. When I returned to the desk, lo and behold, I had been upgraded to a suite. I just wish it hadn't taken so much effort - it really did colour my entire view of the hotel.  
 
We took the lift upstairs and went to see our new suite. The rooms were small, like most New York hotels. The hallways are very dark, even by W standards. The room was very dark as well, and could really do with additional lighting. Put it on a dimmer if you want to provide ambience, but four 40 watt bulbs are not enough for a two bedroom suite. Even my young eyes complained.  
 
But the dim lighting wasn't enough to hide furniture which should have been replaced eighteen months ago. The entire room looked very tired. Drawers didn't fit properly, everything was rickety. It looked like two-year-old Ikea furniture that had been poorly assembled to start with. Not at all like the solid, nice looking furniture I've come across at other W's.  
 
The 'down-at-the-heels' trend continued throughout the hotel. Our coat hooks were loose. Our blinds were frayed. Our air conditioning was an antique. Still, at least it worked. I understand that on Monday and Tuesday, the hotel was without air conditioning at all.  
 
In common with every other W I have stayed in, the smoking room I had requested came without any ashtrays. Ironically, every non-smoking room I have stayed in had two ashtrays in the desk drawer. If I've specifically asked for a smoking room, please provide me an ashtray. I just might want to smoke.  
 
I did have a few pleasant surprises at the W. Walking past Oasis, the lobby bar, I saw an old friend from the W New Orleans tending bar. We talked for several hours as I helped increase her business. I thought it would be rude not to have a beer or three.  
 
In my opinion, this hotel has had its day. It need a full refit of furnishing and some serious training to the staff before I'd ever return.  
 
