We have been taking family trips to Disney World since the time this collection of resorts and theme parks was almost Small Town, certainly compared with the mature (over-developed?) Disney World of today.  
 
There were just three hotels then -- the Contemporary, the Polynesian and the Golf Resort (since rechristened the Disney Inn and then Shades o'Green) -- and one attraction, the Magic Kingdom.  
 
In the intervening years, we stayed at many of the hotels, and at the campground too, and always found the resorts several cuts above those we experienced everywhere else. Landscaping, imaginative swimming areas, exceptionally attractive rooms and common areas -- the Disney Resorts had it all. And this was true in every price range. Like most visitors, we found a moderately-priced hotel like Dixie Landings every bit as appealing, and sometimes more appealing, than a super-luxury hotel like the Grand Floridian.  
 
So, we were shocked -- There really is no other word -- when we went to check out the All Star Sports Resort. Yo! Giant Coke sculpture; what was that about? I suppose the several-story-high sports equipment sculptures could be considered fun, but a Coke cup? Beyond this in-your-face commercialism, the All Star Sports Resort is just tacky looking, sort of a Motel 6 on steroids. Even the doors look cheesy.  
 
Part of a complex of similar, themed, low-budget motels the All Stars scream low-budget in a way that lower-priced area motels, including Days Inn and La Quinta, too popular off-site competitors, do not. The All Star resorts look like what they are: Disney's attempt to keep every Orlando dollar onsite. The company does not want to cede any business to competitors on International Drive, a strip just filled with economical motels, and so it offers this under-$100 motel to budget-conscious travelers.  
 
In fairness, I have read comments on various Disney Internet message boards indicating that many visitors do enjoy their stays here after they get over the initial shock of seeing the place, and most do report that, yes, the giant sculptures are a bit disconcerting.  
 
There is a very large pool, but again, it looks low-budget. Unlike other Disney resort pools, this one is not surrounded by landscaping, and it does not offer shade.  
 
There is a cafeteria-style eating area. On our first visit, we noticed that little packets of peanut butter and jelly were out on the condiment counter along with Saltines. We thought that was a nice touch and a great thing for families with small children, but on subsequent visits did not see the peanut butter. This cafeteria is not exceptional in any way, but is pleasant enough.  
 
The best thing about the All Star Sports Resort is the game room. It is big and filled with great sports games, both video and arcade.  
 
This motel complex is not very near any Disney attractions. Transportation is by bus, and, because there are lots of people staying here, there is some competition for seats.  
 
In the debate over whether to stay on-site or off-site while visiting Disney World and other Orlando-area attractions, I think if the choice were this motel or an off-site motel, I would go off-site where there are many more attractive lodgings for less money. I think anyone choosing to stay at the All Star Sports Resort would do well to rent a car. This place is pretty isolated from the most desirable sections of the Disney World complex.  
