If you are vacationing to Disney and would like to stay at a bargain hotel right on property, then you've come to the right place! Disney's All Star Sports hotel offers a great price range and houses you close to the Disney magic. The rooms are a decent size and each building is themed to different sporting events like tennis, surfing, baseball, and football. The scenery around the area is very nice as well.  
 
I recently took a trip to Disney and stayed at this resort for 8 nights. The rooms were a decent size. For each different themed building, there were different accessories to decorate each room. For example, there were paintings of surfers and beaches in the surfing building. Each room has 2 queen sized bed, but I believe you can also stay in a room with a single, king sized bed. Next to the sink area, there is a closet, a safe, and a bathroom. The bathroom itself is quite small, but the shower is a standard size with adjustable water pressure. While the room wasn't so bad, there were things that I liked and didn't like about The All Star Sports, like many hotels.  
 
Stars 1, 2, and 3  
There are many good things about this resort that helped me to choose it for my stay.  
 
First: the excellent price I got for nightly stays. The All-Star Resort offers the cheapest hotel rate in all of Disney property! Prices can range from $89 dollars a night to $135, which is really good for staying on property.  
 
Second: The transportation provided by Disney at the All Star is the most efficient method of transportation in all of Disneyworld. Although this may be the cheapest hotel, they sure helped us out on getting from place to place! On average, I waited about 10 minutes for each bus to arrive to the different parks. Even better, there is only one stop for many of the busses. At other hotels, you have to go from place to place to place before you can actually make your way to the park.  
 
Third: The food court provided by the All Star is great! There are many different varieties of food found here, like an Italian place (pizza, spaghetti/meatballs), a fastfood stand (hamburgers, chicken fingers), "home-cooked" meals (meatloaf) and an all-day breakfast stand so you can get donuts in the afternoon if you really wanted to. Disney also sells a mug for about $10.00 that you can use at the soda machines during your entire stay. 10 bucks may seem like a lot right now, but it saves you a lot of money because you can get drinks at your leisure.  
 
The Not So All Star...  
 
This resort doesn't deserve 5 stars for a couple different reasons...  
 
Too many highschool/college kids Being the cheapest hotel on property, this is the ideal location for high school groups or spring break college students to stay. Many times the gigantic pool is overly crowded and if you're lucky, you won't be able to hear all of the noise that they make at night.  
 
Room Service isn't so Efficient Again, being cheaper than all of the other hotels, the maids seem not to care when they come to clean your room. I've gone out early in the morning and come back to the room at about 2:00pm and the room still hasn't been made up! (Of course, when they finally do clean the rooms, everything is up to par).  
 
Travelling to the attractions takes a little longer than expected... When you stay on property, you expect to be close to all of the Disney theme parks and attractions. However, the only places that you are really close to are Animal Kingdom, the Wide World of Sports, and Blizzard Beach. Everything else is at least a 15 minute ride, if not more.  
 
So, Disney gives you a resort at a great value, but there is still a price to pay for what you aren't literally paying for! 
