I recently stayed at the Stratosphere hotel for eight days. Although the check in was impressively quick for Las Vegas that is where the first class service ended. My husband and I got to our room after 12 hours of travel exhausted. The room had a unidentifiable stain on the floor which kind of looked like blood, but I cannot be sure. The bathtub was dirty - I had to clean it out before I went in there. The lighting in the sink area was dim, and for us girls and make up you prefer the bright lights. Not to mention the fact that there was a sound that traveled overhead of the room that sounded like a train on tracks. We never determined preciously what the sound was. We were too far from the elevators, the roller coaster on top of the tower does not operate all night long, so that left us curious, but anxious to move rooms.  
 
The manager upgraded us to a player suite which did have better lighting and a marble topped bathroom. It also had an extra room with a small chair in it - I would have been outraged if I would have paid the extra $20 a night this room was supposidly worth, but we got the upgrade for free so it was fine. We changed rooms late at night and I noticed there was not a "Do Not Disturb" sign. I called housekeeping and requested one and they suggested to simply place the sign outside the door for us since it was late.  
 
The next morning we discovered that we did not have any hot water unless you took a shower early in the morning as we had done on our first day there (3 hour time difference from east to west coast). The shower was luke warm - almost cold so we thought we could combat the cold shower by heating the room. Most of the time hotel rooms can get extremely warm even beyond the point of comfort. Not this room, there was no heat so after the luke warm shower we were faced without the comfort of a warm room.  
 
Not to mention the fact that after my cold shower I placed my towel on the floor and was on my way out of the bathroom when the maid walked in with me in my birthday day because we never got that "Do Not Disturb" sign as promised. The housekeeping manager did treat my husband and I to the "American Superstars" show in the hotel, which actually was a wonderful performance, but that did not completely supress my anger and embarrassment for myself and I'm sure the maid as well.  
 
My only other positive thing I will say is that they have a wonderful restaurant called, "Top of the World" which is located at the top of the tower. It is a revolving restaurant and you can see an entire view of Las Vegas in an hour time frame. We sat right near the window, had an expensive, but truely good meal and a lovely evening. Reservations are recommended and you can go to the observation deck for free if you eat there.  
 
Although the managers were apologetic and as helpful as can be I still believe some staples to hotel living are hot water and do not disturb signs. I would never stay there again. I would never recommend someone to stay there. Sure, go see the show and have a meal, but don't sleep there. It was one of the worst hotels I have ever been in and quite frankly it tainted my stay in Las Vegas a little.  
 
Oh yes, I almost forgot, on the web site they claim they have three pools. That appears to be untrue. The have one pool on the 8th floor, I was told the one on the 24th floor was closed and there was no mention of one on the 6th floor. You can see their "pool facts" on http://www.stratospherehotel.com/pool.html.  
 
The casino seemed to be like every other casino in Vegas, with the exception of $2.00 BlackJack all day and night. It was more geared to those on a budget I suppose.  
