I stayed here for three nights while in Fort Lauderdale on business. And while this hotel is in dire need of refurbishment, it's location makes up for some of its short comings.  
 
I checked into the Sheraton Yankee Clipper Hotel in early December '02. My accommodations were in the beach tower; in order to get to them, I had to go back outside and walk through the parking area. I had a standard ocean view room with typical Sheraton amenities including a king sized bed, 20 inch color TV with cable, computer hook-up, a decent sized bathroom and plenty of complementary toiletries. It was obvious that the room had been updated recently with new window treatments and upholstery. However, the carpeting was stained in places, the furniture somewhat roughed up and the sliding door to the closet (which wasn't a big deal) wouldn't close all the way. The clean bath towels provided by the hotel were rough, thin and small. The pillows on the bed were old and flat. I had to request extra pillows, and even the ones brought to the room were just as as bad. All hotel towels were the same quality; although I had lots of extras, they were all thin and worn.  
 
The bed itself was quite hard, and by the third night, I was dreading having to sleep on it. All the beds I checked out seem to be on a concrete platform. Some people, including my husband, might prefer this arrangement. However, it was too stiff for me to ever feel comfortable.  
 
The hotel was situated in a fairly good location. The wide stretch of beach along Fort Lauderdale's waterfront was spectacular. Unfortunately, the lounge chairs and umbrellas on the beach were owned by a concession who charged $15/day. I refused to pay this amount to enjoy a few hours in the sun. But most people I spoke to paid to do so, as the hotel's pool areas (two of them) consisted of a square pool, concrete decking and few lounge chairs and some tables with umbrellas and chairs.  
 
I found the pool areas (one near the beach and one enclosed in between the hotel towers) to be clean, but it had a motel like feel to it. Considering my employer paid a corporate rate ($$$), I would have thought for the money, this hotel would have been typical of other Sheraton resorts elsewhere. No so. There was a restaurant on the premises, which always seemed empty, a quiet lounge with happy hour munchies (not bad) and entertainment (at least when I was there). The vast majority of clientele, from what I could tell, were foreign visitors on holiday or airline employees staying the night. Some of the people I ran into on Sunday night were there as part of a pre-cruise package. Either way, it appears, most people used this hotel only to sleep and to freshen-up by night and go elsewhere for entertainment by day.  
 
The Sheraton Yankee Clipper had a large motel feel to it, not at all in line with it's size, location and price. Other hotels in the area had landscaped pool areas where clientele spent more time enjoying the facilities. One couple I met who was taking a cruise the next day, said they were able to get one night here for $40 through Priceline. I think my employer paid about $130/night (corporate rates are pretty high). One other couple I had met who arranged to stay here with a cruise line said they paid $90/night. I wouldn't pay more than $60-$70/night to stay here - in line with what you would pay at some of the other motels near the beach in the area.  
 
If there was one positive aspect, it was the hotel's location. Across the street at the Bahia Mar Hotel, is the water taxi stop. For a few bucks, you can take the water taxi to excellent restaurants, shopping and points of interest and tour the mansions of Fort Lauderdale along the water ways while in transit. I found it enjoyable during the day as well as at night.  
 
The beach front by the hotel also offers the best beach volleyball in Fort Lauderdale; good competition if you play and fun to watch if you don't. There are good restaurants a short walk away, and public transportation that picks you up and drops you off at the front of the hotel. Cab fare to and from the airport or Port Everglades was around $12 including tip.  
 
So, would I come back here again? Probably not. For a one night stay, it's probably fine, but given the fact that the Embassy Suites or Amerisuites both have comparable prices and much better amenities (though NOT on the beach), I would be inclined to recommend one of them for a pre or post cruise stay. On the other hand, if I got the Sheraton Yankee Clipper from a winning Priceline bid of $30 or $40, I'd consider it a great deal, regardless of my opinion. Don't forget, my employer paid a lot to have me stay here; under similar circumstances, I'd recommend going elsewhere.  
 
Good luck!  
