I have been to Disney World several times. One year I stayed at Disney's Yacht and Beach Club.  
 
The outside of the hotel is extraordinary. It is surrounded by a beautiful beach. Too bad they don't let you swim in the water though. Something about catching a disease........ The signs don't stop the ducks from swimming in the water though. They even have quarter machines for you to purchase food for the ducks (yet another way for Mickey Mouse to make money)  
 
All of the Disney resorts have great pools. The Yacht and Beach Club has the nicest pool of them all. The pool, which goes on forever, has 2 sections. Part of the pool is deep, while the other part, which is good for children, is shallow. In the middle of the shallow part is an oasis of sand where the children can build sand castles.  
 
This pool is the home of one of the scariest water slides I have ever seen. I have never gone on it because I am scared of water slides. It looks like a lot of fun though.  
 
I love to eat. This hotel has many eating options. When you're tanning by the pool, you can eat at Hurricane Hannah's. Don't want to get up to get your food? No problem! You can ask one of the waitresses who walks around the pool to get you your food. They have the best burgers, curly fries, and salads. They also serve great daiquiri's.  
 
In the mood for a cold, refreshing drink? Make a stop at Beaches and Cream. These drinks are very refreshing after a hard day at the pool.  
 
Dinner time? Well, you MUST eat at Cate May Cafe which is part of the Yacht and Beach Club hotel. It is a buffet dinner. They have shrimp, ribs, chicken, steamers, muscles, crab legs, and many other items. The desserts are incredible! I usually don't like the desserts that they have at buffets, but this place isn't like all of the others!  
 
This hotel is very expensive to stay at, but well worth it. Whenever a T.V. family goes to Disney World, they almost always stay at the Yacht and Beach Club. It's no wonde 
