Right next to the Yacht Club at Walt Disney World is the Beach Club Resort. Although many think the two hotels are identical, they are in fact, very different. If you read my Yacht Club review, you know that I love staying at that resort. However, I have also stayed at the Beach Club a few times and have enjoyed my stay here as much as on the other side!  
 
Location: The Beach Club resort is right in the middle of EPCOT and MGM Studios. It's actually walking distance to both theme parks. This can be really convenient because if you go out to the front of the resort where the Disney busses pick you up (free transportation to anywhere on Disney property), and it seems crowded, you can either take a left or right (depending on which park you are heading to) and take a scenic walk to the gates. The Beach Club is also within a few minutes of almost all other places on property, including Disney Village, Typhoon Lagoon, Fantasia Golf, and the Boardwalk.  
 
 
The Rooms: With 583 guest rooms, there are 4 different types of rooms to choose from:  
 
-Standard View/King Bed - view of the garden or parking lot, bed folds out from wall.  
-Standard View/2 Queens/Kings - view of garden of parking lot.  
-Water, Pool View/2 Queens/Kings - view of pool or lake.  
-Standard View/Deluxe Room – view of a garden, woodland or parking area  
 
I've stayed in two different rooms at the Beach Club. One was a standard room with a "view" of the parking lot. The second was a suite, which also had a view of the parking lot. Both rooms were very alike, except that the suite was bigger and had a smaller balcony. Both of the rooms had 2 Queen size beds which were pretty comfortable and a television facing the beds. There was a futon in the rooms as well, which was nice because we travel with 5 people and that gives the fifth person a place to sleep! A Table and chairs were in the corner of the room. Next to the closet, there was a dresser and across from the closet is the bathroom area. Two sinks were right outside of the bathroom and the shower and toilet were on the inside. It was funny to find a telephone and television speakers inside of the bathroom too! But, of course, it was nice to listen to the news while you're taking a shower! Every morning at the Beach Club, a paper is delivered right outside your door.  
 
The Atmosphere: The Beach Club is just beautiful! On both sides of the lobby, there are cushioned seats around beautiful flowers. If you feel like relaxing indoors, you can sit down in one of the comfortable chairs or couches in the lobby. When you go outside, you will find rocking chairs and some beautiful topiary pieces. The last time I was there, there was a huge butterfly as soon as you walk out of the lobby. Just across the Boardwalk is the beach and the lagoon, where you can sit on a swing and enjoy the beautiful day.  
 
The Pool: Known as the most popular pool on Disney property, The Beach Club's pool is just GREAT! The pool is shared with the Yacht Club, which is adjacent to the Beach Club. There are actually 3 different pools in this area and they are all different so everyone can enjoy them!. The first pool that you see when you walk out of the Beach is Stormalong Bay. A huge water slide emties into the pool whose entrance is right across the Boardwalk. But Stormalong Bay doesn't only have a water slide! It also has a whirlpool, "quicksand" and one spot where you can swim into a huge pool of bubbles. If you cross over to the next pool, you will feel the current pull you along. This is a lazy river pool. The next pool is a children's pool, where the water is shallow and the kids can build sandcastle's on the sandy beach area. These pools are so different from all the other pools on property because there is sand on the bottom of them! Hot tubs are located in the middle of Beaches and Cream and Stormalong bay. There are a couple quiet pools that you can also go to, which are open really late at night.  
 
The Food: Whether you're looking for a quick snack or a sit-down dinner, the Beach Club has it all. Out by the pool is Hurricane Hanna's where you can get alcoholic beverages, hamburgers, hotdogs, chicken fingers and cookies. Poolside beverage service is available all day from Hurricane Hanna's. Beaches & Cream Soda Shop is just a couple minutes away. This restaurant is great because it looks like an old soda fountain shop. Here, they offer meals, like turkey club sandwiches or hamburgers or you can just order some ice cream to go. If you are looking for a full-service restaurant, then you should try the Cape May Café. Every morning, the buffet restaurant has a Character breakfast with Goofy, Chip and Dale, and Minnie Mouse. Every night, an indoor clambake buffet offers clams, mussels, beef-ribs, chicken and some great desserts! Martha’s Vineyard is located inside and has a different selections from different vineyards. The Rip Tide is a lobby lounge that has wines, wine coolers, beers, cocktails, and frozen drinks. The only thing I don't like about the Beach Club's food is that there isn't a food court, not even a small 24 hour court that offers snacks. Other restaurants can be found just a few minutes away at the Yacht Club or right even on the Boardwalk. Beaches and Cream and Hurricane Hanna's are only open for so long...  
 
The Service: There are many different services that are offered at the Beach Club. Whether you need customer service or Valet parking, someone is always there to help you. Everyone always has a smile on their face. There is even a "Greeter" who is dressed as a ship's captain who says good morning and/or welcome to you every time you leave and come back!  
 
Some of the other services that they have are kid's programs at the Sandcastle Club, an Arcade, A health club and a barber/hairdresser salon. There are facilities right at your fingertips where you can rent boats, play tennis, volleyball or even croquet.  
 
The Beach Club is also perfect for business conventions. Sharing a huge facility with the Yacht Club, the two resorts have a 73,000 square foot function area that also has a 36,000 square foot Ballroom and 21 breakout rooms.  
 
The Beach Club definitely has a lot to offer! Every time I stay there, I have a lot of fun and I bet you will too!  
 
