It would be foolish to put some clever title on the review of this hotel, because it is exactly what it is. A beautiful hotel, in a perfect location, with large rooms, and an architectural design beyond belief.  
 
We visited this resort for our 25th wedding anniversary. We traveled in March, which tends to be the high rain season, and it seems that every time we visit a beach resort it rains. It rained every day, as we were in the midst of a minor storm that had done some damage to the islands. Maybe that is why we take more cruises, as the ship keeps moving, and the rain can't be there forever.  
 
We booked this trip with United Vacations, and since we had not started traveling as much as we do now, I "trusted" their opinions. I did have some concern because the big hurricane had done severe damage to the island, and we were coming just a year later. I was assured by the United Vacations representative that the island was in perfect condition, which was not the case. However, since that was more than five years ago, no doubt all the damage has been fixed, and the vegetation has grown back. However, I would not recommend United Vacations unless you have really done your homework concerning your chosen destination.  
 
The hotel is a very open concept design that sits on 50 acres of the Poipu Beach District of Kauai. The grounds were beautiful, and the interior of the hotel was open to the outside, as were all the halls to the various destinations of the hotel. Everything was protected from the elements, and it gave you a very tropical feeling. In the lobby were a beautiful collection of live, native birds, of magnificent colors, some in cages, and some sitting on perches. Marble and oriental rugs, lush tropical fresh flowers were everywhere. There is nothing about this hotel that would be a disappointment.  
 
There are 602 rooms spread out over the large hotel area, and they are only on two floors. We had booked a standard room, but I did call the hotel and let them know it was our anniversary, and we received a complimentary upgrade to the Regency Club. The Regency Club consisted of 40 incredibly beautiful room with a private access lounge. The room was large, king size bed, interesting furniture, and comfortable chairs, and a patio or balcony depending on the floor you were on. I am always fascinated with the bathrooms in these hotels. This was again marble, in two compartments, with sliding doors that open up to the room.  
 
The Regency Club was the best one we have ever experienced. We could not believe the food that they put out, starting with breakfast and ending with evening drinks. Breakfast contained anything you wanted, lunch was a nice snack, and the evening snacks....well, there was so much food we never ate dinner in a week. Every night they had a different theme for dinner, and since there was so much to eat, and drink, why pay for a meal. The decor was very comfortable, tropical, and became our little meeting area with friends, because the weather was so bad.  
 
The beach is supposed to be great. The whole time we were there the red flag was up, so we didn't get in the water. There are two large swimming pools connected by a river like park, and a sand beach. The weather did give us a little break, and we enjoyed this so much. The children were having a great time with all the facilities at the pool. The sand area is around a five acre saltwater lagoon. Frankly, they didn't even need a beach!  
 
One day I had to go to the Spa. I decided on a package that had a facial, partial massage, and manicure. The price was about $100, and it took the whole afternoon. The total spa area is 25,000 sq ft, and has it's own partially enclosed pool, elaborate exercise facility, and lava rock showers.  
 
This hotel is a real winner, complete with it's own 18 hole golf course. Although I would be cautious about the time of year I visited, I would say there is no way you could be disappointed in your stay here.  
 
 
