I have to differ on a few items with beerbuff's review of Hyatt Regency at Lake Tahoe.  
 
I have been going out there now for 5 years, my husband and I travel out there for 8 days and 7 nights, usually the week before Thanksgiving week.  
We found Lake Tahoe quite by accident, we were looking for someplace new  
to try other than Daytona Florida, since we live in Florida, and the heat  
we opted to try something on the cool side for a change.  
 
Our travel agent recommended Tahoe because it had Mountains which I love and cool weather which both my husband and myself were looking for. We stayed at the Hyatt Regency, I had written a letter with my reservation to the Hotel and told them how my husband and I were celebrating our 25th anniversary. To our surprise when we checked in the General Manager had  
upgraged us from the hotel room which runs around $165. a night to the  
Cabins on the Lake across the road by the Lone Eagle Grill. These rooms run around $345. a night, and charged us the $165. Hotel Tower rate. The Hyatt is on the North Shore at Incline village which is so quaint and friendly.  
 
The cabins are definitely a must, they are 4 rooms to a cabin, upper and lower, with storage on the main entrance of the cabins for your ski's and ski equipment. The rooms have two bathrooms, a bedroom with a sitting area, a safe, a Fireplace in the living room, color TV in the living room, bedroom and even in the main bathroom. There is a terrace outside the living room area with a wood deck and chairs to take in the view of the lake.  
 
I recommend renting a 4 wheel drive vehicle, since it is very mountainous.  
It is close to Diamond Peak, & Mt. Rose for skiing. We love to hike so we go to the lookout with a hiking trail that takes you down to Vikingsholm  
castle on the lake. There is also Heavenly for skiing on the South Shore.  
 
Where I beg to differ with beerbuff, is you can gamble in the Casino at Hyatt at Roulette for a minimum $2.00 bet. I did for hours and had a great time. There are nickel, dime and quarter slots, as well as electronic poker machines. They have poker tables in the back for the serious gambler. They have several restaurants inside of the hotel all of which I found to have excellent and reasonably priced food. They have a great breakfast buffet and for $20. each morning my husband and I could fill up and not be hungry until almost dinner time. Within a 10 minute scenic drive you can be at McDonalds for breakfast if you prefer when on a budget.  
 
I found if you budget your money in advance for food, souvenir's and gambling, you can have a great and memorable time in Lake Tahoe. I also recommend joining the Hyatt Gold Passport club, because you can also upgrade to the Cabins on the lake with you member points the price drops down to about $245 from $345 a night. You accrue, member points, with every stay at any Hyatt. Also, with your Gold passport card you get discounts in the Hotels gift shops.  
 
 
