Several years ago, I decided to take my little brother to Disney World. As a child, I had never been there, and my parents couldn’t find it in their budget to take Danny there either. I told him that when I graduated college, he and I would hop on a plane and spend a week with the Mouse. Of course, I didn’t realize it would cost so much money!  
 
As a recent college graduate, I wanted to cut costs wherever I could. Furthermore, I wanted to take good care of my then-10-year-old brother, and ultimately, I wanted to stay on property. After a tremendous deal of research, dozens of travel agent interviews, and about 24 paychecks, I made our reservations at the Wilderness Lodge. This all seemed well and good to me. We’d be on property; we’d get early admission into the parks; the cost was reasonable; and we’d have a great time.  
 
But then I received a letter from the good people at the Disney Corporation. It seemed they had me in their database of Meeting Planners, and as a result, they wanted to impress me. I was just starting to get accustomed to this star treatment, which was a perk to my underpaid job. Without question, I took them up on their offer and called their convention office.  
 
“Well hello, Shannon!” they happily greeted me on the phone. “Where would you like to stay?” I could hardly believe it! Anywhere? I could stay anywhere? How about the Grand Floridian? “Well, Shannon, of course you can stay at the Grand Floridian… if that’s what you really want. But why don’t you try The Disney Yacht and Beach Club?” That’s all I needed to hear.  
 
Disney’s Yacht and Beach Club is indeed two separate hotels; however, they are one resort (Does that make sense?). The two properties share restaurants, convention services, and a large, spectacular pool. However, when you make your reservations, you do need to specify whether you’d like to be in the Yacht Club or the Beach Club. Both hotels are magnificent, offering large, beautiful rooms; first-class service; a beautiful view; a lovely beach; and the shortest possible route to Epcot Center. I place this review under The Beach Club, because that’s where I ended up.  
 
My brother and I stayed in a first-floor suite, which had a separate back patio. The patio looked out over a small, private pool, which got little use during our stay. The room was large, clean, and carefully decorated. It offered a full marble bath, two telephones, fax/modem capabilities, concierge services, and a lovely view.  
 
With that said, we didn’t plan to spend a heck of a lot of time in our upgraded room. We were the first to arrive at the parks in the morning, and we were the last to leave at night. We did, however, make good use of the restaurants, the Beach Club Water Park, the room service, the concierge, and mostly, the location.  
 
Situated right next to Epcot Center, you can walk from the Beach Resort to a back gate into Epcot. The luxury of using the back gate is that you avoid any long lines. After spending an entire day at this modern theme park, we simply skipped back over to the hotel, where we recharged our batteries for the next day. The following morning, we caught a van to The Magic Kingdom, where we were granted early admission. That evening, we attended the Hawaiian Luau. To get there, we took the van to the Magic Kingdom, then hopped on the Monorail. Likewise, when we went to MGM, we also took the van. I should note that the Monorail does not make stops at The Disney Beach and Yacht Club, because it is a little off the beaten path. However, there was never a lack of alternate transportation, and we never had to wait for these services.  
 
The Beach Club Water Park was most definitely a highlight of our trip. Rather than simply supplying a large pool, this water park offers slides, beaches, games, and a very large play area. Surprisingly, it was never crowded, and as a result, we skipped Orlando’s other water park attractions. In the end, this saved me a lot of dough. You see, there is no admission cost to relax at the Beach Club Water Park; it is included in the price of your hotel reservations.  
 
We also took advantage of the property restaurants, which offered a character breakfast as well as an all-you-can-eat dinner buffet. In classic Disney style, the food was delicious and plentiful; the waiters were undeniably friendly and cordial; and the atmosphere was fun, relaxed, and upscale.  
 
The Beach Club property, in one word, is magnificent. Since then, I have had the pleasure of staying at just about all the Disney hotels, and this one beats the competition hands-down. Does it compare to the Grand Floridian? You bet! The only thing the Floridian has over this property is a coveted stop on the Monorail track. Other than that, you will get the same upscale service and a fabulous view. Likewise, in my opinion, the Beach Club is a bit more laid-back, and it never seems quite as crowded.  
 
Staying at the Disney Beach & Yacht Club comes at a price. This is one of Disney’s more expensive properties, as well it should be. But within walking distance, you can enjoy the new boardwalk; the large, lake-view beach; and an easy stroll to Epcot. In addition, this is a first-class property, which rivals any Ritz.  
 
When my convention sales associate advised me to stay at the Disney Beach and Yacht Club, she (in effect) admitted that this is their proudest accomplishment. If you have a little extra money and you are seeking an unforgettable trip to Disney World, this is my #1 suggestion for a place to rest your weary feet.  
 
In conclusion, Danny and I enjoyed a fabulous vacation at Disney World. Of all the places I’ve visited in my lifetime, this was by far my most magical adventure. Disney will never be the same for me as it was that year. It was my first time, and my little brother is not so little anymore. Sometimes, now, when I look at his broad shoulders and baby soft facial hair; when I hear his deep, intelligent voice; when I watch him pull out of my mom’s driveway… I see a tired little boy dressed in mouse ears, waving flags on Main Street, collecting character autographs, and wildly giggling at the top of his ten-year-old lungs. I ache for that vacation all over again…  
