Ahoy there, matey. I stayed at Treasure Island in Las Vegas in late May 2001. Of my four trips to Vegas, this was my best hotel experience yet. Treasure Island is excellent for a number of reasons, with location being a top bonus. Treasure Island’s location allows easy access to the strip, and the convenient tram to the Mirage saves time and sun exposure. One of my favorite things about the hotel is that it is very easy to get from the front entrance to the guest elevators. In other hotels, with NYNY and MGM being prime examples, the guest elevators are obscured in the midst of the casino. At Treasure Island, it is a straight shot from the door to the guest elevators.  
 
The Room  
 
Treasure Island boasts its spectacular views of the Pirate Battle or the volcano at the Mirage. Well, we checked in and had a view of a roof. Ok, so it wasn’t quite the Pirate Battle, but how many times did we look out the window during the weekend? About three…and only to make sure the sun was still shining. The room was a standard size, with two queen beds, a table and chairs, and a TV cabinet There were two mirrored closets, and a roomy bathroom with a large tub. The beds were comfortable, and everything in the room was in good condition. With four women in the room, the layout wasn’t ideal when preparing to go out, but it was still perfectly adequate. We had enough room to store all of our luggage without tripping over it, and we found enough outlets for our hairdryers, curling irons, immersion heaters, nightlights, etc.  
 
Amenities  
 
The pool at Treasure Island was a bit disappointing compared to the outstanding pools at the newer hotels. Even so, it was still nice for a relaxing afternoon swim. Treasure Island has one main pool, a smaller children’s pool, and a large hot tub. Lounge chairs, cabanas, and poolside service are readily available. My main complaint about the pool is that to get to it, guests must walk through the main part of the hotel shopping area, and right past the Mystere theatre. That is not the most comfortable stroll to take when you are dripping wet and unkempt. I did not try any of the spa services offered at Treasure Island, but they had a nice selection of massages, facials, manicures, etc. available for guests.  
 
Dining  
 
Treasure Island has several restaurants to choose from. For casual all-day dining, there is the Terrace Café. The café features a standard menu of American meals and snacks. For something a bit nicer, there is the the Courtyard Grille, with a more Italian menu. In addition to a number of other casual cafés and snack bars, Treasure Island has several fine-dining establishments. The Buccaneer Bay restaurant offers a gourmet menu and private view of the pirate battle. For any of the restaurants, it is important to consider reservations and/or waiting time. The Terrace Café in particular is very busy. For faster service, opt for a table in the smoking section (ALL of Vegas is smoky, so it won’t matter anyway).  
 
 
Entertainment  
 
Free entertainment is one of my favorite features of Las Vegas. The Pirate Battle at Treasure Island is always an interesting event. Inside Treasure Island, Cirque du Soleil performs Mystere, a show featuring acrobats, gymnasts, dancers, singers, musicians and clowns from 15 countries.  
 
Overall  
 
I would highly recommend Treasure Island to those looking for a comfortable, convenient place to stay at a lower cost. While it may not be the newest or most spectacular, Treasure Island has nearly as much to offer as the other strip hotels. It is a great 'home base' for your trip to Vegas.  
 
A little note of interest to those concerned about safety  
 
Late on Sunday afternoon as I was napping, I was jolted awake by the sound of an alarm. The alarm whooped for a few moments, and then an announcement came on. A calm voice said something to the effect of ‘This is the early warning fire alarm system. Please review the safety instructions in your guest manual. We will update you after further investigation’ I quickly dressed and gathered easy-to-carry valuables, then stood by the map of my fire escape route awaiting further instruction. I didn’t smell smoke or see flames, but heard sirens coming toward the hotel. After about ten minutes, an all-clear was announced, and everything went back to normal. I have to admit I was impressed by the hotel’s fire preparedness. Imagine evacuating a giant hotel/casino without clear instructions. I hadn’t thought of fire safety before, but it was comforting to know the hotel had a good system.  
