What a great Tahoe hotel! An older resort, it is nice although somewhat unspectacular when you drive up for the first time. Then, when you walk out of the snow and into the lobby....well, WOW! The expansive lobby area is dark, warm, and decorated in beautiful, rustic, mountain chic...with lots of dark wood, stone, and high beams. Big fireplaces were going with cozy leather furniture groupings around each, almost begging us to curl up there with a warming libation. My husband and I visited the week before Christmas, and the numerous, beautifully decorated lobby trees only enhanced the ambiance. Service was good, if rather laid-back. This was not necessarily a bad thing, but was rather in keeping with the general tone of this quaint, slow-paced resort town. It was there if you needed it, but not in the in-your-face-everywhere-you-turn sort of way that it is, for instance, on a cruise ship. The hotel employees were generally informal, friendly and helpful. The only negative that comes to mind was a kiosk set up near the main elevators from which time-share hawkers continuously beckoned hotel guests as they came to and from their rooms. Walking by several times per day was almost unavoidable, and we were somewhat rabidly solicited about half a dozen times during our 5-night visit.  
 
We got a King Hotel Room, and we were extremely happy with it. It was newly decorated (and looked it), furnished in sort of a rustic-yet-contemporary style with an earthtone pallette. We had a spacious, well lighted bathroom (always a big plus for me!), large closet, mini-bar, armoire with television, work/entertainment table and chairs, and what was probably the most comfortable hotel bed I have ever slept in. The bed had a fantastic mattress and box spring (which is sometimes aggravatingly absent), and TWO sheets with a soft, thermal blanket between them. It was topped with a heavy down comforter, and was just fabulous to sink into after a day of skiing while the snow swirled and wind howled outside. We were on the 7th floor, and had a breathtaking view from our large windows of both the mountains and lake.  
 
The resort boasts an absolutely beautiful restaurant and lounge called the Lone Eagle Grille. You do have a short walk to get to it, as it is located across the street (directly on the shore of Lake Tahoe). Well worth the hike, even in the snow. It was built in a 1920's lakefront lodge style, and is exquisitely warm and romantic. Huge picture windows face out over the lake, and outdoor fireplaces were burning on the lakefront patio where a well-bundled, impervious-to-cold crowd sipped cocktails. Inside, large fireplaces burned continuously and more of the vintage mountain decor prevailed. On one side, a light appetizer menu was served along with an extensive list of martinis and other libations. The other side of the lodge is an upscale restaurant (which we didn't try, but looked to be doing a land-office business). I highly recommend a visit to the cocktail lounge side of the Lone Eagle, at the very least. Try the lobster bisque...it was some of the best we'd ever had.  
 
We didn't have many of our meals at the hotel, but what food we did have was good and fairly priced. In addition to the appetizers we enjoyed at the Lone Eagle, we also had lunch and drinks at Cutthroat's Saloon (right off the lobby). It's one of those Old West throw-your-peanut-shells-on-the-floor places. it was fun and relaxed, bartenders were great (thanks, Jeff!), and both food and beverages were delicious and priced right. A Cosmopolitan martini was $5 at Cutthroat's, as opposed to $7.50 at Lone Eagle (and was quite a bit larger).  
 
One of the Hyatt's many amenities is a large, beautiful casino right off the hotel lobby which drew an attractive, substantial crowd the weekend we were there. One word of caution, though...the slots are EXTREMELY tight at the Hyatt. You will very easily run through a $20 on a quarter slot machine in less than 10 minutes in that casino (this is betting one credit at a time). I would like to add that I fully expect to lose everything I put into a slot machine, but I would like to get a little entertainment bang for my buck while doing so. We drove about 5 miles to the west to Jim Kelly's Nugget Casino one night (right on the CA/NV border) and I played for 45 minutes with one $20. They boast slots that are "23% looser" according to Nevada gambling statistics. Based upon my personal experience, it certainly seemed to be the case.  
 
This resort also offers a beautiful new spa on-site with almost any treatment imaginable....from every type of massage, to hair styling, to nails, to skincare. They also have a sauna, as well as a large jacuzzi and heated pool. My husband enjoyed an 80 minute Sierra Stone Massage while we were there, and practically had to be poured back into the room afterward. The special services are not inexpensive, but neither are they outrageous...and they are performed in a lovely, relaxing, professional environment.  
 
The Hyatt is located on the North Shore of Lake Tahoe, which is the quieter side of the lake. There are plenty of of places to ski all around the lake, and all are relatively centrally located to the resort. You probably won't drive more than 25 miles in either direction to reach the furthermost ski destination you could possibly choose...and the drive is spectacular whichever way you travel. There are more casinos on the South Shore (and it is also more congested and touristy), but having stayed on both sides, I prefer the more quaint and low-key North Shore.  
 
Two restaurant recommendations before I wrap up. If you visit Lake Tahoe, try The Blue Agave on the NW side of the lake. They serve up some of the freshest, tastiest Mexican food my husband and I have ever eaten (and he used to live in Mexico!). It is a lovely restaurant with a beautiful view of the lake, and is quite inexpensive. For a memorable dining experience when money is no object, try Le Petit Pier, located in Tahoe Vista (about 7 miles west of the Hyatt). It is an adorable French restaurant located right on the lakeshore which has been around for over 30 years. Le Petit Pier has been featured both on the Food Network and in Wine Spectator Magazine and, after dining there, I can certainly see why. The wine list was outstanding, and everything we ordered, from Escargot and Fois Gras to Lavender Honey Glazed Duck Breast and Herbed Rack of Lamb, was spectacular! Every taste was an epicurian delight, right down to the tiny champagne and watermelon sorbet presented as a palate cleanser between courses. My husband had the Creme Brulee (with a surprise berry bottom) for dessert, and proclaimed that he had enjoyed versions of the custard "in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower which were not as wonderful". I digress from the purpose of this review, but the meal was so wonderful and the ambiance so romantic, I couldn't help but mention it. Be prepared to drop some serious change if you go, but you will certainly find it well worth it!  
 
Overall, I would highly recommend the Hyatt Regency Lake Tahoe Resort and Casino. Almost everything you could want is under one roof, and everything else is mere minutes away. A perfect Lake Tahoe destination!  
 
