Disney's Beach Club resort is truly beautiful, relaxing, and perfectly situated. It's connected to the Yacht Club resort, which has a New England sailing theme; the Beach Club is themed more like a seaside retreat, decorated in pale, refreshing "beachy" colors. The pool, called Stormalong Bay (shared by both resorts) is the Beach Club's jewel, the element that keeps families coming back: it's huge, with lots of nooks and crannies and bridges, a sand-covered bottom instead of typical concrete, and a big water slide. There are stands set up along the "beach" where you can have your hair beaded and braided and buy seashell jewelry. Water sprites and small speed boats are available for rental. You could spend days hanging around these sister resorts and never run out of things to do!  
 
Dining  
 
Directly across from the Yacht and Beach Club is the Boardwalk resort, which is just a 5-minute walk away, and there are tons of dining and entertainment options over there (the Boardwalk looks beautiful all lit up at night, if you've got a lagoon view room). The dining choices at the Yacht & Beach Club aren't shabby, either: Cape May Cafe offers a character buffet breakfast in the morning and a non-character (but delicious) clambake buffet at night, with menu items such as clam chowder, fresh clams, corn on the cob, new potatoes, chicken, rice, salad bar, and the most scrumptious dessert bar in WDW (not to mention a kid's section with fried shrimp, chicken tenders, etc.). Hurricane Hannah's is a snack bar by the pool where you can find burgers, tuna sandwiches, etc. and drinks (alcoholic and non) to eat on the patio or take back to your poolside chair. Over at the Yacht Club, you might want to have one of the best steaks of your life at the Yachtsman's Steakhouse; and be absolutely sure to stop in at Beaches & Cream, the fifties-style soda fountain that has the best cheeseburgers and fries in all of WDW, plus hard ice cream and all sorts of ice cream concoctions (I love the chocolate malteds and brownie sundaes--yum! Stop here even if you're not staying at this resort--you'll thank me later!!). A full 24-hour room service menu is available.  
 
Accommodations  
 
Guest rooms are spacious and comfortable: two queen-sized beds, large bathroom with two outside sinks, a table with two chairs, a couch that serves as a bed, TV, and mini-bar in every room. Housekeeping does a great job of keeping your room beautiful. Most rooms have balconies, but some upper-floor rooms only have tiny balconies which can barely hold 2 people standing upright--if you want a full balcony with chairs, you should definitely request one when you're making reservations, and then again (by fax or phone) a few days before you check in. If you would like a little more space for your money, you might want to request a Hammerhead (corner) room, which is more spacious and spread out. My only Beach Club room complaint is that there is very little storage space for clothes--only a few large drawers, a standing chest of small drawers, and not very much closet space/hangers.  
 
Transportation  
 
Transportation is pretty darned good at this non-monorail resort: 10-minute boat launch to Disney Studios, bus service to the Magic Kingdom and Animal Kingdom, and you can take a scenic walk to EPCOT Center (entering through the World Showcase...only a 5-minute walk, if that. Bonus: you can see France from certain spots at the resort! ;)) You can also take a boat launch to EPCOT. One more note: if you happen to have your own car or a rental car on property, it makes much more sense, sometimes, to drive to a monorail resort (Grand Floridian, Contemporary, Polynesian), park there, and take the monorail to the Magic Kingdom. Likewise for the Animal Kingdom--park at the new Animal Kingdom Lodge, or simply drive to the park itself to save a LOT of time that might be spent on an uncomfortable bus.  
 
Overall, Disney's Beach Club knows how to make a good time for the whole family--anyone staying at the Yacht & Beach Club has so many options just a few steps away. I highly recommend this resort; I know you will, too!  
