From the first time you set your eyes on Treasure Island you expect to see pirates coming out to greet you with a hardy "Ahoy Mateys." You have to remember that you are in Las Vegas and not on an island full of pirates.  
 
Exterior  
 
Treasure Island is located right next door to the Mirage Hotel on the Las Vegas strip. The two hotels are connected by a tram that you can ride between the two any time night or day. This marvelous hotel, upon your arrival, will immediately take you back to the time of Captain Hook. The exterior is well kept and you notice the giant pirate ship right away. At night this ship turns into the battle of good and evil with shows 2 to 3 times a night. To enter the hotel you must walk the board plank into the front door.  
 
Once Inside  
 
Once inside you will find the pirate theme carried throughout the hotel and casino. The decorations are bright and colorful and the entire place is extremely clean. We arrived at the front desk ready for check in, we were with a large group from my husband's company, the desk was well staffed and handled this large group very quickly and efficiently. This being a business meeting for my husband, he was very pleased with a quick check in since it would give him some time in the casino before the first meeting. We were given the key to our room and pointed to elevators with a warm thank you and enjoy your stay.  
 
Our Room  
 
We found our room very easily and were immediately impressed with the cleanliness and the size. We had a very comfortable king size bed, a large bathroom with a large supply of bath towels, shampoo, soap, lotion with the hotel name on it. The pirate theme was carried out in our room also, but it was not dark and dreary, but decorated with bright up to date colors. We had a nice view from the window and could see the volcano next door at the Mirage.  
 
The Casino  
 
This is the best part of this hotel. It is large and roomy, with a very helpful staff. It has all of the normal games such as Blackjack, Craps, Roulette, Caribbean Stud Poker and lots of Slot Machines. I love Keno and this casino has the best Keno Bar on the strip I think. It is located right off the casino, but is separated from the casino with two half walls, which protect it from so much of the noise of the casino. The chairs here are quite comfortable and the Keno staff is a ton of fun to spend time around. They make the game fun for all and after being there for 2 or 3 days you feel as if you get to know them a little bit. My husband wasn't quite as impressed with the dealers at the table games, he didn't seem to think they were quite as friendly as some of the other hotels.  
 
Food  
 
We had breakfast each morning at the cafe located right off the casino. Since the men were in a meeting, the wives all met for breakfast each day. We had quite a large group and were always quickly seated and waited on. The wait staff were very efficient and always close by if we needed anything. The prices were very reasonable and the food was great.  
We ate lunch many times at the little deli which had great sandwiches for a very good price.  
 
The Pirate Show  
 
We had heard many great things about this wonderful show and were anxiously waiting our turn to see it. Unfortunately the winds were to high each night that we were there and we never got to see it live. We did get to see parts of it on Treasure Island TV and were very disappointed that we didn't get to see it for ourselves. If you go try and see this show, I hear you want be disappointed and I want to read your review and see what you thought.  
 
Meeting and Banquet Rooms  
 
I realize that this topic is not often covered in a hotel review, but with us being here for a business meeting I wanted to give you my husband's thought on this. He felt that the meeting rooms were very comfortable and quite clean each day. They were well stocked with snacks and drinks each day for each of his meetings. The rooms were large and they didn't feel packed in like sardines. We had a banquet on the last night of our stay at Treasure Island and the food, staff and room were all very good.  
 
Overall  
 
Treasure Island has so much to offer it has to be one of the best on the Las Vegas Strip. We had so much fun here and found everything to be in great shape. Whether you are looking for a place for a business meeting or just a great place for a getaway this is definitely the place for you! Just watch out for those Pirates!  
 
Ahoy Mateys!  
 
