I've been to Walt Disney World about nine times since 1985 and stayed at the Polynesian Beach Resort most of those times. The first time was an accident (it was all that was available) but each time afterward it was a conscious decision. I've talked to numerous people at the resort who told me that, they too were repeat visitors. That in itself might be sufficient endorsement, but I'll elaborate :-)  
 
Location  
 
In real estate, they say that location is everything. If that's the case, you can't go wrong here if your main interest at WDW is the Magic Kingdom. Like the Contemporary, Grand Floridian and Wilderness Lodge, the Polynesian is located across the water from the MK. Unlike the others, though, you have four options for getting there from the Poly.  
 
You can take the monorail from the station within the resort (about five minutes, depending on timing); take the boat from the Poly marina dock (about ten minutes, longer if the circular route takes you to the Grand Floridian first); or walk over to the Ticket and Transportation Center and take the ferryboat or direct monorail.  
 
The last two options may not sound too appealing, but if you're on the west side of the resort, the walk is less than ten minutes and if there is a big line at the Poly, you might save some time.  
 
More importantly, here's something few people don't realize -- by walking to the TTC, you can get on a direct monorail to EPCOT and save yourself the trip around the lagoon on the resort monorail. This makes the Polynesian the only resort with direct monorail access to two theme parks.  
 
All over locations within Walt Disney World are accessed by Disney bus (or your car).  
 
Rooms  
 
The standard room at the Polynesian is very large. There are two Queen sized beds and a day bed -- enough space for five adults. The bathroom is fairly sizable. The South Seas theming is carried into the rooms with canopies over the beds, cane furniture and appropriate coloured wallpaper and paint.  
 
One complaint that I have about the rooms is that there aren't enough power outlets. I bring a computer, camcorder and cellular phone on trips and have a hard time plugging everything in without putting something in the bathroom (not a good idea). You can connect to AOL with a local call (0.75 charge per call).  
 
The rooms are spread around the resort in various "longhouses" (traditional Polynesian structures) that are three stories high. Some of the older buildings do not have balconies on the second floor. If getting a balcony (first floor rooms all have patios) is important to you, be sure to call the resort a couple of days before you arrive to request it.  
 
Because of the layout of the resort, some buildings are lengthy hikes away from the main building. My personal favourites are Samoa and Fiji, both of which are near the main building. If you want to be further away (and quieter), the Tahiti is on the far end of the resort (and has a short walk to the TTC.)  
 
All of the rooms have recently been refurbished.  
 
Food Service  
 
There are two full service restaurants at the hotel and a 24 hour snack bar.  
 
O'Hana  
 
O'Hana, which means "family", serves two meals. There is a character breakfast with (last time I was there) Minnie, Goofy and Chip and Dale. The food is all you can eat, family style and is no better or worse than you'd find at the local Perkins. There is also an evening meal ("feast") that consists of appetizers, a salad, all the "skewer served roasted meat" you can handle, and a pineapple and caramel desert. I'm of the opinion that the evening meal has declined over the years and, while I used to love it, I now generally skip it.  
 
On nights when there are fireworks over the Magic Kingdom, they dim the lights and pipe in the music so that you can enjoy it from the huge windows that overlook the lagoon and MK.  
 
Kona Cafe  
 
This replaced the Coral Island Cafe, which was awful. I've only eaten here a couple of times and the food, island in nature, is much better, but very overpriced. Not too bad for lunch, but don't go there if you are in a hurry.  
 
Captain Cooks  
 
This is a snack bar on the lower level of the main building. It's open 24 hours (and occasionally puts out 1/2 price pastries after 1am :-) and serves some hot food (burgers, chicken sandwiches and hot dogs) along with pastries and ice creams. The first night you are there, buy a refillable mug. You can go back to the snack bar for the duration of your stay and refill it with soda, lemonade and coffee for free.  
 
Nothing at Captain Cooks is overly bad or overly good. It's just convenient.  
 
Amenities  
 
There is plenty to do at the resort that has nothing to do with the theme parks. You can rent paddle or mini speed boats, and sail boats (you apparently need some sort of proof that you know how to sail to get on those) to check out the Seven Seas Lagoon and Bay Lake. There are several white sand beachs with chairs and umbrellas. Swimming in the Lagoon is not encouraged.  
 
There are two pools. One is currently (2/01) closed for renovation, and is a themed pool (eg: lots of kids). The other is a "quiet pool" and is just a big round thing. Both pools are heated and may be swum in during the coldest weather. Once or twice the pools have been closed in the evening due to mosquito problems. Otherwise, they are open all night, but only supervised with lifeguards until about 10pm.  
 
If you go to the Great Ceremonial House (main building) during the day, there are often activities for children, including Disney movies, colouring and singing and dancing.  
 
Also within the main building there are several stores, offering clothing (pretty pricey,) tropical items and sundries. There is a pub and small liquor off sale in the main building as well.  
 
Suggestions  
 
Book a garden view room and ask when you check in if they have any upgrades available. I've been bumped up a couple of times.  
 
Rent a car. The bus system, while efficient, will never get you where you need to go as fast as driving yourself.  
 
Don't forget the short walk to the TTC if you want to go to EPCOT. It will save you a ton of time. You can take the resort monorail back to the Polynesian on your return -- it's the first stop.  
 
For a quiet evening, grab a couple of drinks and go down to the beach about 9pm to watch the Electrical Water Pageant, an underpublicized and enjoyable event.  
 
Drop your kids off at the Neverland Club (located within the resort) and spend an evening at Pleasure Island. The Neverland Club, like Ohana, has deteriorated a bit over the years, but is still fun for little kids.  
 
This is an expensive resort, no doubt about that. Going during the off season and joining the Disney Club will result in some reductions, but it's still not a place to go if you're on a tight budget.  
 
