My wife and I just celebrated our 25th wedding anniversary at the Polynesian Resort at Walt Disney World Florida. We had spent part of our honeymoon there in 1975 and we both wanted to go back when we could afford it. It ended up taking 25 years (and Epinions) to complete our dream. With all the family expenses, including a daughter in college, it became impossible to save enough to make reservations to stay there. In November of 1999 I was introduced to Epinions and thus, after writing and reading many hours, we were able to afford to make reservations and thus our 25th anniversary dream came true. Thanks to all who read my articles and helped make this milestone in our lives come true.  
 
A Brief Description  
There’s so much I can write about this outstanding Resort in central Florida. We arrived on Monday morning and checked in to our room. In the Polynesian Resort there are many ‘Long Houses’ where they have 3 floors of rooms in each. The buildings are named Tonga, Aotearoa, Fiji, Tuvalu, Samoa, Niue, Hawaii, Tokelau, Rapa Nui, and Rarotonga. Then there is the Great Ceremonial House. Here is housed the registration desk and numerous restaurants and shops. It is a two-floor building with a waterfall in the center, which is surrounded with tropical plants and flowers. This wondrous tableau is two stories tall and completely takes up the center of the building. On both floors are many shops and dining places for all tastes and prices. In the center of all the building is a very nice swimming pool with a poolside bar. There is a guest laundry room and a video game room for the kids. On the second floor in the Monorail which services the Magic Kingdom and Epcot.  
 
Our Building  
We stayed in the Hawaii building which is a Concierge Service building. Included as part of this service is a 2nd floor room where we could go and have a variety of foods during each day. From 7:00 a.m. till 10:30 a.m. they provide fresh fruits, juices, danish, cereals, teas, and fresh brewed coffee and is called Kakahiaka (morning service). From 12:00 p.m. till 4:00 p.m. we could have Guava juice, lemonade, and tea as well as various types of cookies and this is called Auinala (afternoon service). From 5:00 p.m. till 7:00 p.m. we would have available a selection of wines, light hors d’oeuvres, and soda and fruit juices and this is called Ahiahi (evening service). And finally from 8:00 p.m. till 10:00 p.m. visitors can have a sampling of fantastic desserts and a wide choice of cordials. You were encouraged to take soda, water and snacks back to your room for later consumption. All this was at no extra charge.  
 
There was also expert staff in the building from 7:00 a.m. till 10:00 p.m. each day to assist you with any problem that may arise or to assist in making reservations for dining or special events.  
 
Dining  
In the Polynesian Resort there are several places to dine. The biggest and most elaborate is the nightly Luau held in Luau Cove. This is a family style meal with pork and chicken served with fruits, vegetables and bread. For dessert is pineapple cake. During the meal is a Polynesian theme floorshow, complete with male and female dancers in traditional costume. They include the audience in the action especially the children by teaching them to do the hula. They also have a fire dancer who is the grant finale. Reservations several weeks in advance of your arrival is necessary.  
 
In the Great Ceremonial House there is the ‘Ohana Feast which is an all you can eat meal. When entering you are guided to your table and taught the customs of the islands. We are considered ‘Cousins’ and treated like family. The meal consisted of pork dumplings, spring rolls, smoked salmon, noodles, steamed vegetables, grilled pork, turkey, top sirloin, and jumbo shrimp. Dessert is sliced fresh pineapple and caramel sauce. The meal is $20.99 all you can eat and frankly the food was better here than at the Luau.  
It’s easy to get a seat early but for evening dining reservations are recommended.  
 
Also in the building is Tambu Lounge featuring exotic libations. Appetizers are available from 5:00 p.m. till 10:00 p.m. daily. The Kona Café is an excellent place for a morning eye opener or a family breakfast like Tonga Toast. They even serve lunch.  
 
Overall  
As I mentioned earlier we were there 25 years ago and liked it so much we went back for our 25th anniversary. If everything goes well we’ll go back again for another occasion. I only hope that this time it will not be 25 more years. It’s a great place for the entire family. Everyone is treated like they are the most important people there by all the staff. You are greeted with “Aloha!” by all the staff. Every question is answered in a quick and efficient manner. If you want reservations to a show or dinner they make you feel like they really want to make them for you.  
 
Of all the places I’ve stayed over the years, Disney’s Polynesian Resort is the best!!!!!!!  
