Review Topic: Overview  
 
Clearly the jewel of Downtown Las Vegas, The Golden Nugget Hotel and Casino has not lost its luster since Steve Wynn sold it over a year ago. The Nugget is a five star hotel/resort in every aspect, and is a bargain, to boot. I've stayed at the Golden Nugget a score of times over the past two decades, and it just keeps getting better and better.  
 
Accomodations  
Rooms at the Golden Nugget are spacious and luxurious. Currently decorated in neutral colors and a with a French Provincial decor, each room has a large credenza housing a TV, a table and two side chairs, and bedside tables with clock radio and phone/message service, and a dressing/makeup table complete with magnifying mirror. Lighting is adequate, and the air conditioning heating system is powerful, though noisy, with individual room controls. Beds are very comfortable, with soft linens, soft pillows and as an extra luxury, a sheet both over and under the blanket. The bathroom is very large, with marble floor, large Corian counter with sink, very large and fluffy towels and a REAL bath mat in place of the usual towel mat. I've never had a less than perfectly clean and fully operational room at the Nugget. It's a quiet, relaxing place to stay.  
 
Hotel/Resort Ambience  
The Golden Nugget, though it lacks the theme-orientation and hugeness of many of the newer strip hotels, is a quality resort in every aspect. The hotel lobby is white marble, graced by huge, fresh flower arrangements and a mural-sized original oil painting by LeRoy Neiman. The decor is rather generic but pleasing, with red/black carpeting, pure white walls and lots of beautifully maintained polished brass accents. The pool has a large and fully equipped spa and exercise facility, a beautiful outdoor pool area, and, of course, a vast casino. Its Carson Street cafe serves excellent "coffee shop" food, their buffet is excellent and reasonably priced, and there are three specialty restaurants: California Pizza Kitchen, Stephano's (Italian) and Lily Langtry's (Mandarin Chinese). Both gift shops feature boutique clothing for men and women as well as the usual novelty gifts and snacks. There are no other shops at the Nugget.  
 
One of the main draws of the Nugget is that it is an ADULT environment. Because there are no attractions for children, you won't find them wandering through the casino or hotel hallways.  
 
Casino  
The casino is large and very well lighted. Table minimums are usually $5, though an occasional $3 blackjack table can be found on weekday afternoons. All blackjack is dealt out of the shoe. Pai gow poker, Caribbean stud, roulette, craps, and baccarat are offered, and there is a special area for "high stakes" players. As with most casinos these days, slot machines and video poker machines dominate the casino layout, though they are overly noisy or obtrusive. Cocktail waitresses circulate frequently offering free beverages. Casino employees are friendly and helpful, for the most part. It's a pleasant place to gamble, though I usually go elsewhere, since single-deck blackjack favors the player.  
 
Conclusions  
Perhaps the greatest incentives in staying at the Nugget (besides its adult atmosphere) are its proximity to several other casinos downtown and its outstanding quality for money spent. Rates are modest by Vegas standards, given the luxury of this resort. Once you stay at the Golden Nugget several times, you are invited to join their "Private Arrangement" club, where discounts and freebies are offered to frequent guests. In August I stayed at the Nugget midweek for $39/night, with a $25 certificate for food in any of the hotel's restaurants. Other privileges include a "go to the head of the line" card, where one can avoid long lines at the buffet and coffee shop, and a free night for every four nights accrued. It's tough to pass up a good deal like this.  
 
The Golden Nugget has been a mainstay of Las Vegas, and even by current Strip standards, is a prime place to stay and play. The new owners are committed to retain the high standards set by Steve Wynn, and are constantly upgrading and remodelling to remain competitive. It's a jewel that is worth many times its modest price.  
 
 
