Disney's Wilderness Lodge is definitely a one-of-a-kind resort. Complete with a working geyser and a river that flows through the lobby, this resort is themed as a western lodge. My family and I have been staying at Disney's Polynesian Resort since it first opened, and we've been hooked on it! Then we decided to try something different, that's where the Wilderness Lodge came in.  
 
As soon as you enter, the beautiful 6 story lobby surrounds you. The check-in process was smooth most of the time, as it is in all Disney hotels (with the exception of the time when they booked us for December 31, 2000 instead of December 31, 1999!). The rooms are nice and have good views pretty much all around. Getting a room with bunk beds is a nice feature as well. Disney certainly has spared no expense putting together this resort.  
 
Outside, there's a huge pool, and an awesome waterslide that starts inside a rock. There are paths leading all over so there are many picture taking spots. The transportation to and from the resort poses a serious problem, however. The monorail resorts (Polynesian, Grand Floridian, and Contemporary) are very convenient because you can just hop on a monorail and go to the Magic Kingdom or EPCOT. On the contrary, here you must wait for a crowded bus to come, sometimes for 20-30 minutes! There is also boat transportation, but that is also slow, and is kind of uncomfortable in the heat.  
 
Another problem with the resort is the restaurants. I guess they're just not my style. The Artist's Point Restaurant features mostly fish, and the other restaurant is southern food. The only food we could really eat here was in the Roaring Forks snack bar, but there's so many other restaurants located throughout the Walt Disney World Resort property.  
 
The Wilderness Lodge will certainly be an experience you will never forget, and I would recommend this to anyone, especially families with children of any age. You'll always remember our stay at The Wilderness Lodge!  
