Yes, I know. Pretty corny. But how often do you get to say it and really mean it?  
 
I was fortunate enough to stay at the Ritz-Carlton in San Francisco on business while covering a conference being held at the hotel. Normally, my company would not put me in such a luxurious hotel, but sometimes I get lucky. This was one of those times and I definitely enjoyed it.  
 
Whisk Me Away to a Wonderful Room  
 
After a smooth check-in I was soon settling into my room and feeling pretty much like a princess. The room was large and rectangular with a big, luscious king-size bed. A fluffy down coverlet on a deliciously inviting bed was more than I could resist.  
 
Before even unpacking my bags, I found myself lying on this very comfy bed, looking around a tastefully decorated room. The armoire held a 25 inch television and there was a writing desk, as well as two upholstered chairs. My room had two large windows that were draped in softly muted colors. I found myself wishing that my master bedroom at home was as large and comfortably furnished.  
 
A Great Bathroom  
 
Next on my list to explore was the bathroom. And it certainly did not disappoint. The Italian marble sparkled and large, fluffy towels awaited me. There were double sinks with plenty of room for me to stash my necessities.  
 
At times like this I really wish I was a bath person, instead of a shower person. I would probably have enjoyed soaking in a hot bubbly tub and admiring the beautiful surroundings.  
 
Plenty of Extras  
 
There was a nice large closet, complete with two terry bathrobes, ironing board and iron, as well as extra pillows and blankets. I would not be lacking for anything in the room.  
 
The Overall Elegance  
 
After admiring my room and finally unpacking, it was time for me to get ready for dinner. We had reservations for our group and I wanted a little time before dinner to look around the hotel.  
 
The sounds of a grand piano drew me toward a beautiful high-ceiling room that looked almost as much like a cathedral as it did a hotel. It was very beautifully and elegantly decorated. I remember lots of fresh flowers and large paintings and well-dressed people buzzing about.  
 
I didn't want to dawdle too long, staring like a country girl come to town for the first time. But being my usual bumpkinish self I had to take in the atmosphere for a while before following the hallway toward the dining room.  
 
Dinner for 10, Please  
 
We had a fairly large party (about 10 of us) so we were seated at a long table. The service was excellent and the dinner had been pre-arranged for us with a choice of chicken or beef.  
 
The beef medallions were tasty and tender and served with fresh vegetables. They were preceeded by a crisp salad and fresh bread. Pass the butter, please!  
 
The dining room was elegant, yet not so formal that I felt uncomfortable. We took our time enjoying our meal and chatting with fellow employees we hadn't seen in a while.  
 
Ah, Room Service!  
 
The following day, I had breakfast delivered to my room. (One of the great joys of business travel for me.) It was so nice going to the door in my Ritz bathrobe and letting the waiter deliver my food.  
 
I'm certain I went over my meal allowance but the bacon was crisp, the juice was freshly-squeezed, and the pastries were delicious. My breakfast was promptly and courteously served and most definitely enjoyed.  
 
Meeting Facilities  
 
The hotel can accommodate several fairly large meetings in the banquet area. Our meeting was held in a large high-ceilinged ballroom, with lovely chandeliers throughout the room.  
 
The wide hallways and high ceilings were excellent for people milling around without feeling cramped. There was a very basic lunch served as part of the meeting (cold sandwiches, chips, and drinks).  
 
As each of the participants had to pay the cost of lunch as part of the attendance fee, they had chosen one of the more economical options. It was certainly nothing like the dinner we had the evening before.  
 
As soon as the meeting ended, I couldn't wait to get back to my room, change clothes and go walk around the Nob Hill area a bit.  
 
Very Nice Overall Experience  
 
I had no complaints at all about the Ritz-Carlton during my stay. The room was comfortable with everything I needed, the food was good, and the service prompt and polite. As I was only there for two days and busy with a conference I didn't get to check out all the available facilities at the hotel but everything I experienced was excellent.  
 
