On our last trip to Hawaii my husband and I cashed in our frequent flier miles with American Airlines for free airfare. As an added bonus, we were given 50% off discount certificates for certain hotels on the various islands. We decided to take advantage of these certificates while on the island of Kauai.  
 
While on Kauai, we stayed at the Hyatt Regency and are so glad that we did. We would never have spent the $350 a night room rate, especially for a one week stay, but using the discount certificates brought the rate down to a more affordable $175 a night which was within our hotel budget for that island.  
 
The first thing you will notice about this hotel is its open space design. Both the lobby and all hallways to the rooms were open to the gorgeous Hawaiian weather. The lobby is adorned with lush gardens filled with colorful tropical plants and flowers. Alongside the gardens are beautiful tropical birds, some in cages some sitting on perches. What a relaxing atmosphere. I was able to spend some time sitting on the comfortable benches just enjoying the scenery each morning.  
 
The rooms are spacious. You do not get that cramped feeling I have experienced in many hotel rooms. In addition to the bed were two comfortable chairs, and dresser/entertainment unit and two nightstands. The bathroom had a shower/tub combination & a marble topped double basin vanity area ( that is great for when two people are trying to get ready at the same time). I liked that there are shelves on each side of the vanity area for each persons personal items. I helped to keep the bathroom looking neater. There was also a separate area for the toilet with its own door, allowing for privacy while your partner is showering or getting ready .  
 
The resort area of the hotel is equally incredible. There is an adult pool, a pool with a waterslide as well as several hot tubs nestled between the waterfalls and tropical foliage. While these are beautiful themselves, I was highly impressed with the vast saltwater lagoon that is sprinkled with several small "islands" with their own hammocks swaying between palm trees.  
 
We ate at the "Tidepools" restaurant on the hotel property. The restaurants atmosphere was extremely romantic. We were seated in a gazebo like structure, sitting in the middle of a pond complete with Koi fish. The waiter suggested the grilled seafood platter. Our tastebuds were delighted with the luscious flavors of freshly grilled shrimp and lobster complimented by a tropical fruit salsa. The waiter did great with his suggestion to order that night's special.  
 
If you are ever fortunate enough to visit the beautiful island of Kauai, try to stay at the Hyatt Regency, you won't be disappointed.  
