I'm kind of disappointed this expensive phone system. I used to have a Siemen's phone system, but the sound started to degrade after a few years, so I switched to this more expensive Panasonic system.  
The phone has a nice feeling to it. I like that you can choose the line you want to dial out on. This feature was missing from the Siemens phone. The illuminated keypad works very well. The volume control is easy to use when talking, but I wish it went a bit louder. Sometime it's just not enough volume.  
 
Now for the down side.  
The directory is not connected to the caller-id like on my cell phone, and my Siemens phones. What I mean by this is if a name exists in my directory with a phone number, I want that directory name to display instead of the default caller-ID name. Sometimes the caller-ID name is "Unknown Name", like every time for cell phones. That doesn't do me any good at all.  
Transfering is difficult on this phone. You can't just yell across the house "Pick up the phone". You have to transfer the call. This is not always easy, because you have to ask what number extension are you holding. There are no labels on the extensions, just numbers.  
I don't like the fact that each phone acts like it's a stand alone phone. The system does not act like a system. You can't share directories. This is a big minus, because you have to type in the directory for each phone. I have about 75 numbers, and names for a system of 4 phones. You can't clear the "Received Calls" label for the system. What's the point of buying a system, when the phones don't share. There is no mute button on the base, or any of the handsets. The speakerphone does work well though.  
 
We had central air installed in our house, and it seems that the blower is interfering with the sound quality of any handset that gets within 10 feet of it.  
 
 
 
Upside again:  
I do use the general mailbox. That works well, and I can access it from the road. You can have multiple mailboxes, but I just use the general box. the phone uses NiMH batteries, and that's good.  
