No interference from my wireless video camera, wireless computer network, or microwave. No audio chopping when I move to distant parts of the house - I did have these problems at 2.4 GHz. I first tried a Uniden DCT-5260, 2.4 GHz model with 2 handsets - I don't see that model on ePinions.  
 
I like the orange backlight and lack of visible antenna. I have nothing else good to say about it.  
 
The function keys are atrocious. I can find the Talk button easily, but the End button is just one of 6 identical buttons that are equally spaced around the large talk button. What were they thinking?!  
 
To work with the caller ID list you have to press a button on the left, then one of two buttons on the right to scroll, then down to the bottom to use two poorly labelled buttons: one to delete, the other to confirm? Most other phones - including the DCT-5260 - will use soft keys. What were they thinking?!  
 
When the phone is taken out of the charging cradle the LCD blanks out. It does activate when a call comes in, but on the DCT-5260 it stays on (but not lit) so that you can glance at it and see if there are any new calls on the list. With this phone you have to press a button to reactivate the screen. I don't get it, LCD with light off consumes very little power. What were they thinking?!  
 
The DCT-5260 used AA NiMH batteries. What a GREAT IDEA! But this newer model uses a proprietary and smaller set of NiMH. What were they thinking?!  
 
Storing numbers from caller ID was not easy, especially because the function keys required are scattered all over. I know I could've read the manual, but try to do this common function on a Nokia cell phone and you'll NEVER need the manual.  
 
Imagine my dismay when I realized that long distance caller ID numbers can NOT be redialed! Yes, they left off the leading 1 (one) and there's no option to make it store numbers with a 1.  
 
Finally, although the handset looks OK, I despised the retro base station look, so I made sure to buy the basic model with no speakerphone or answering machine.  
 
Uniden needs to put a 5.8 GHz phone in the DCT-5260 package. Now that I've concluded this review I realize that I must return the phone. Stupidity should not be rewarded 
