Well, I went for the panasonic name coz I understand they make (or was it made?) good phones. After i returned my KXTG1871 since it started acting funny, i bought this one. Well, went on fine for a few months. Now it has started acting funny. From the beginning, there is no low battery indicator when you talk. the phone just disconnects!! hey, even a 10 buck phone has the decency to beep before cutting your conversation!  
The advantages were the NiMH battery since NiCd is a pain after it dies out pretty soon. I bought this coz it had two handsets, a speaker phone, caller id, a phone book in each handset, an answering machine. That reminds me, the answering machine can be accessed remotely but you cannot delete the messages unless you are at the machine!! hey, if i go on vacation, my voice box is full and even if i check messages, most of them were from crappy sales people selling timeshares, i cannot delete them missing out on any important messages that someone may want to leave! For that matter, you cannot delete messages after checking them from the handset. yeah, come back to the damn base unit. Recently i've noticed that the sound is very choppy. this is a sure let down coz i paid 170 for the thing and its now 50 bucks cheaper but still not worth it. I had a SONY some years back that was the basic cordless phone/answering machine unit you get. it had such good features that except for the caller id, it had many things that this "advanced" device doesn't have. I am seriously thinking whether Panasonic are serious about their phones any longer since this was my third Panasonic in two years.  
UPDATE:  
Since you are reading this review, I figure you want all the goodies that this phone suggest. May I suggest look for these too in addition? :  
1. Ringer delay. This one shows the CID after 2-3 rings  
2. Talk time. This one is unpredictable. I charged it over night yesterday and in the morning it went **** though the battery indicator shows full.  
3. 3-way calling using the Phone book. This is tricky, coz after you place one call, you want to use the phone book in the same handset to dial another number for a conference call. well, you are out of luck with this one coz the phone book is not accessible. even my junk nokia cellphone is good.  
4. If you move from one area code to another, do you have to edit all phone entries that were local in the former area code or does it automatically add the area code to those numbers? My $7 Bell equipment caller id i bought 5 years ago does that! Smart, eh?  
5. I'd love to have a phone that uses the AA size NiMH since you can charge them separately and if the battery is to die out, put the call on hold at the base probably and change the batteries not missing your conversation.  
6. Would love to have a base battery backup instead of hooking my phone to my pc's UPS in case we have power blackouts like the last one (god forbid!!)  
7. the ringer volume setting is cool though i'd prefer a switch instead of menu driven.  
8. I'd prefer if i program my base unit to forward calls when i want it to, to some number i specify (either in person or from remote location. I could do that in my SONY) instead of paying the phone company every month for a feature i use once or twice a year.  
9. I'd like a "backlight" button instead of having to press any button to see how long i am talking or walk upto some light source if i am outside under the nice starry sky talking either to someone interesting or pretty boring.  
10. Some phones say they are 2.4GHz but require you to switch frequencies. Atleast this one doesn't require you to do so.  
