We needed more cordless handsets, and add caller ID to our phone functionality. We are extremely happy with the sound clarity, reception, functionality, expandability, and value of this system.  
 
We already own another 2.4GHz Panasonic cordless phone and we love it so we decided to stick with Panasonic and the 2.4GHz line:  
 
http://www.epinions.com/elec-review-7DE9-27970EB-394FC57C-prod2  
 
While at Fry's (to my surprise), a sales associate actually helped us. I told her what I was looking at (I was already holding a single Panasonic 2.4GHz unit) when she (to her credit) showed us this model; which is the same technology, but has 2 handsets with one single basestation. That means that there is only one unit to plug to the phone jack, which both the handsets utilize. The other minibase is just a charging station. This allows you to put the other unit's minibase anywhere in the house near a power outlet (much more common than a phone jack). Plus, in the future we can add a 3rd handset and all 3 would still utilize the single main basestation. Each unit can intercom to each other, and all have caller ID using the crystal clear clarity of Panasonic's 2.4GHz. All of this for under $100.  
 
PHYSICAL FEATURES  
 
The base station is reasonably small and has a telephone jack and wall-wort AC adaptor for power. It is approximately 2 handsets in size and it allows you to place one handset (either one) either face down or face up (latter allows you to see caller ID without picking it up first). There are 3 intercom buttons which allow you to locate and intercom to any of the handset units. A single antenna is used to transmit/receive with the handsets. It's all enclosed in a clean white plastic casing.  
 
The handsets are like long bars of soap and are easy to hold. A rigid 3 inch antenna sticks out at the top and for the most part doesn't manage to get in the way. An optional belt clip can be attached the the back of the phone and there is an mic/earphone jack for hands-free headsets (which works well). The buttons are reasonably laid out, but they are a little small for aging eyes (over 60) to see. The OFF and CALL buttons, the most commonly pressed buttons (think END and SEND on your cell phone) are curiously smaller than the number pad, which makes it a short hunt for people unfamiliar with the unit to find... ie guests. The screen is green back lit LCD display which is easy to read.  
 
RECEPTION  
 
I was a little concerned that the basestation only has 1 antenna, compared to our older Panasonic 2.4GHz unit which has 2 antenna for diversity (more immune to "pockets" of bad reception). However, in practice I have found that these units have extremely good reception and have yet to experience the pockets of bad reception anywhere in the house or garage. The range easily covers our entire home property.  
 
I should also mention that in addition to our other 2.4GHz phone, we also have a 802.11b wireless network in our house (which also uses the 2.4GHz spectrum). We have never experienced any interference on the phone by the other devices, and we haven't noticed interference with our network.  
 
CALLER ID AND OPERATION  
 
The phones are easy to use and bring a more "cell phone like" functionality to the home phone. As calls come in, the phone performs caller ID. It takes till the 2nd ring to figure out the number, but I think this is typical. If you have previously saved the number and labelled it, then that text label will also show up with the number. Because the display has 2 lines, it's really nice to see both the number and the label at the same time.  
 
You can either push the CALL button for a dial tone and dial the desired number as a regular phone, or you can predial the number (which means you can also backspace if you err) and then press CALL (like a cell phone). All the standard functions like redial, flash, and constant button tones are all there.  
 
As mentioned above, there is a phone number directory which allows you to enter or save caller ID numbers with labels (ie "Grandma") to a phone directory. Manipulating the menu can be a little confusing and counter intuitive; this part could stand for improvement. However, the most annoying thing is that each hand set maintains it's own directory, which means you have to enter each entry twice; once for each phone, for both phones to have it. There is no directory synchronization feature. Panasonic should really consider adding this functionality. It's not convenient to spontaneously add the caller ID received phone call to both directories. Not a show stopper, but it's something to be improved in future models.  
 
Each handset also has speaker phone capability, a wonderful feature for a handset. An extra speaker on the back of the phone serves as the loud speaker.  
 
Battery is a rechargeable NiCd which easily last several days.  
 
SUMMARY  
 
Combine the clarity of 2.4GHz, the ease of a single basestation and remote charging station, caller ID, speaker phone, good battery life, and quality construction; these phones are easily the most used phones in our home. Set at a very reasonable price point (for quality), I can recommend this set to any body without hesitation.  
