We used to own a Siemens 2415, a predecessor to the 4215. The 2415 phone was great, but failed the drop and bounce test, we needed a new phone. We actually bought an AT&T 2.4Ghz phone first, assuming that the clarity of the calls we got with the 2415 was to do with the digital transmission on that frequency rather than something specific about the phone. That was a mistake, the AT&T calls were simply not that clear and the range of the phone was not as good as the 2415. We returned the AT&T phone and bought a 4215 (and another 4215 handset).  
 
This is a great phone. For us the major issue with a phone more than features is the clarity of the calls and with the 4215 (even in speakerphone mode) it is exceptional. We did find you need to read the manual to learn how to use all of the features correctly, but the on-screen LCD prompts you for most things. Range is great. With the base station at the rear of our house, we can use the phone with no loss of clarity outside at the front of our house, over 60 feet away. I am sure it would go father but we do not have that need.  
 
In case anyway reading this is not aware, getting a 2.4Ghz or 5.8Ghz digital cordless is very different to getting an analog cordless phone. Analog phone call quality is typically poorer and will degrade the further away from the base station you get. You may also notice they have more visible antenna on both the base and the phone. The other often missed difference is the security of your calls. Its just too easy to receive analog telephone calls using something as cheap as a baby monitor! You would not be able to listen into a digital cordless transmission as easily.  
 
The phone is packed with all the features you would expect, directory, caller id display and so on. The answer machine does everything you could want including remote access.  
 
A small gripe would be that it comes with Ni-Cd rechargeable batteries and I would have preferred Ni-MH as these do not have the memory effect of Ni-Cd, however as the batteries are standard size AA rechargables you can replace them very easily with Ni-MH when the Ni-Cds give up.  
 
One final cool feature is the voice activated dialing. Available on some cellular wireless phone for sometime now, the 4215 allows you to pick directory entries simply by speaking the persons name.  
 
As you can guess, I love this phone.  
 
