The Panasonic TGA230B is not only a great phone as a single unit, but when purchased in a set as can be done at Sam's Club, the phone is perfect for the home. With the 230, you get a built in, easy to use, and VERY CLEAR speakerphone, all part of the light weight handset that has an add-on belt attachment for easily keeping your phone with you. A simple push of a button returns you to handset use.  
 
All controls, from the four way rocker switch conveniently placed under the viewscreen, to all of the feature buttons, are intelligently placed with functions identified on the button or adjacent to it on the faceplate. The included product documentation is excellent.  
 
The built in display is clear and easy to read. There's a contrast adjustment to allow for lighter or darker letters and digits.  
 
Among the features are multiple ring tones, again very handy if you have multiple units and want to identify one of them for the kids. The ringer loudness control permits turning the ringer off.  
 
When purchased as part of a system, you've got a home intercom. Any unit can page any other, and there are kits that include a console unit that contains a charger and a multifaceted digital answering machine. Up to three phones and the console can be part of the intercom system, thereby giving you four units.  
 
The digital answerer has built in answer greetings or you can record your own, and it it's necessary to dissuade solicitors at mealtimes, the recorder can deliver its greeting and hang up. Caller-id and call waiting caller-id work with all phones. The answer machine console lets you monitor the incoming message before choosing to take the call.  
 
Durable? I accidentally dropped a phone about three feet to a concrete floor; no damage, the battery door opened and the battery fell out, no damage to the case whatever.  
 
Additional features include battery life indicator and a charging system that will not allow overcharging the battery.  
 
There are many good 2.4 Ghz phones. Our family has always been happy with Panasonic products, looks like our new phones are no exception...  
 
 
