I recently had to replace my office phone system to eliminate a barely functional Siemens multi-line phone. I also needed a new answering system. Our office has gone through a number of answering systems over the years. All have left something to desire. After reading reviews here at Epinions we decided to change to the Panasonic KX-TG2000B.  
 
The base unit is well constructed and has a very large and useful LCD display, which is a nice change of pace from the Lilliputian LCD's found on most phones. The base unit has a corded handset and offers a jack for headset use. A very nice addition is a "Headset" button, which is used to answer calls when then headset is in use. Finally a manufacture understands how a headset is actually used. The headset can be programmed with both speed dial and directory listings. One draw back here is that the handsets do not share the base station directories. You must program the handsets individually.  
 
Setup of the base unit is simple and is achieved by a few well marked buttons in conjunction with the LCD display.  
 
The answering system and "Auto Attendant" functions are a little confusing. The answering machine function can be turned on to answer calls on either phone line and offers one general voice mail delivery box. The "Auto Attendant" feature however can route calls to individual handsets on answering the phone. This function offers a separate voice mail box for each handset used. This is a draw back as you can not use multiple mailboxes in the answer mode. We would have liked to use several mailboxes to announce address and appointment information. This is however not possible. We do not use the "auto Attendant" feature, but it may be useful in a larger office with no receptionist to field calls. The answering system is efficient and fast. The electronic voice is a pleasant female voice which announces mailbox activity. New messages are easily spotted as the voice mail button is a large clear button which flashes a red icon when a new message is taken. The voice is fast and does not slow down the user. A pleasant treat for anyone who has labored to listen to the slow banter of other voice mail systems.  
 
The handsets are well constructed and have a solid heavy feel. Buttons are well marked and the LCD display and keypad light up on use. Sound quality is exceptional with little discernable difference between the handsets and a corded phone. Truly first class sound.  
 
Transferring calls from one phone to the next is a bit of a task. We have placed small notes on the phones with instructions on how to transfer. After a few more weeks we will have learned the system and then be able to remove the notes.  
 
I feel that the KX-TG2000B has given us a far more reliable phone and answering solution. There is a serious lack of high quality phones and answering systems on the market. The Panasonic KX-TG2000B is thankfully not one of these poor quality contenders. It is a first class product with few weaknesses. For the price it is a steal. I wish I had bought one long ago!  
 
