I do not review the answering machine feature because we have voice mail through our Telco and do not need it.  
 
This phone is totally solid on all of the features it touts.  
 
Sound Quality- Great! I haven't had any problems with interference like phizzes or pops.  
 
Most useful features:  
Speakerphone in handsets as well as base. I use it all the time for checking our voicemail.  
Phone Book sharing: Add all your contacts into one handset, then "copy" them to all the other handsets/base.  
Ability to be using all the handsets at the same time: Do not be fooled by other 5.8 Ghz phones. Some of them (Uniden) do not actually allow both handsets to be used simultaneously. This one does. But, it also allows you to set a "privacy" feature before you place a call so that the other handset cannot be used to hear your call.  
 
Intercom feature: Allows you to talk to the other handset or base while offline (not on a telephone call). Plus, you can choose to call a specific handset (like an extension) or all of them at once.  
 
Key Navigation: I was very pleased with the layout of the keys which allowed for easy navigation and addition of contacts.  
 
Battery Strength indicator: This seems like a no-brainer for all cordless phones, but this is the first one I have seen that actually has it! Thank you Panasonic! Previous phones made me dash to a corded phone when the beeps went off, indicating that it was dying....NOW.  
 
The selectable ring tones are nice. You can choose from JARRING to sooothing. And in between of course. :-)  
 
Ergonomics: Good. Nothing gets in the way (like chin next to the "off" button) Easy to hold. Belt clips were sort of a struggle to install though.  
 
Other features it has, but I haven't really used:  
Room Monitor: we already have a baby monitor and I don't care to snoop on guests so...  
 
Digital Answering System: I sent an email to Panasonic asking if they were going to make a system without it and the answer was no. So, we bit the bullet and found that you can turn it off and it doesn't at all get in the way if you use your Telco company's voice mail system. Which is the way to go if you can (but that is another review). On the other hand, it doesn't have any features which let you know that you have voicemail like other phones, but you still have the stuttered dial tone and we also have external Caller ID boxes which indicate voicemail.  
 
 
One minor gripe:  
 
Caller ID and Multiple Local Area codes: So far the weakest link on this system. Instead of just plugging in say 3 area codes to indicate that they are local calls, you have to click this 'edit' button on the handset for calls which have come in to change them from; 1-756-222-2222 to 756-222-2222, then call the number. Once you have done this, it will remember that any number with that area code is local. The manual says it will do this for up to 4 area codes. Another stickler is that this setting is saved individually on each handset.  
